     * Being Black in Canada
     * (BUTTON) More

   China linked to propaganda campaign targeting Trudeau, Poilievre, says
   Global Affairs | CBC News Loaded
   Politics

China linked to propaganda campaign targeting Trudeau, Poilievre, says Global
Affairs

   The Chinese government likely was behind a “spamouflage” disinformation
   campaign targeting Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Conservative Leader
   Pierre Poilievre and other MPs in August and September, says Global
   Affairs Canada.
--
   Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Chinese President Xi Jinping listen
   to opening remarks at a plenary session at the G20 Summit in Osaka,
   Japan on June 28, 2019. GAC says the PRC targeted Trudeau and other MPs
   with an online propaganda campaign. (Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press)

Social Sharing

   The Chinese government likely was behind a "spamouflage" disinformation
   campaign targeting Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Conservative Leader
   Pierre Poilievre and other MPs in August and September, says Global
   Affairs Canada.

   The department's Rapid Response Mechanism (RRM), which was set up to
   monitor foreign state-sponsored disinformation efforts, said the
   campaign was "connected to the People's Republic of China" and was
   meant to curb criticism of the communist regime.

   According to a report released Monday morning, the propaganda campaign
   began in August and targeted dozens of MPs from across the political
   spectrum.

   A "spamouflage" campaign is one which uses a network of new or hijacked
   social media accounts to post propaganda messages across
   various platforms, such as Facebook, X/Twitter, Instagram, YouTube,
   Medium, Reddit, TikTok and LinkedIn.
   A politician looks to his right as he leaves a news conference in a
--
   Canada.

   The government said the same bot networks were engaged in
   spreading disinformation claiming that the Hawaiian wildfires were
   caused by a secret U.S. military "weather weapon," and have been
   connected to disinformation about Japan's decision in August 2023 to
   release millions of tons of treated radioactive water from the wrecked
   Fukushima nuclear power plant.

   In August, the Rapid Response Mechanism reported that a disinformation
   operation on the Chinese social media platform WeChat had spread false
   information about Conservative MP Michael Chong. That campaign
   spread false narratives about his identity, including commentary and
   claims about his background, political stances and family heritage.
   WATCH | PM, MPs targets of disinformation campaign:

China likely targeted PM, MPs in propaganda campaign, Global Affairs says

   1 month ago
   Duration 2:01
   Featured VideoGlobal Affairs Canada says Prime Minister Justin Trudeau,
   Opposition Leader Pierre Poilievre and other MPs were the targets of a
   ‘spamouflage’ campaign, likely by China's government, that spread
   propaganda and disinformation on social media.

   At the time, GAC said China's role in the information operation was
   "highly probable."
--

   "If at the root of this foreign interference activity is a foreign
   state or non-state actor deliberately attempting to inflict damage and
   circulate disinformation in a Canadian electoral context, absolutely
   [Hogue's] work could include examining this issue," he said.

   Hogue has to deliver an interim report by the end of February. A final
