    #The Nation » Feed The Nation » Comments Feed The Nation » Israel’s
   Ludicrous Propaganda Wins Over the Only Audience That Counts Comments
   Feed alternate alternate


--
   Print subscriber? Activate your online access

   Skip to content Skip to footer
   Israel’s Ludicrous Propaganda Wins Over the Only Audience That Counts



--

   World / November 17, 2023

Israel’s Ludicrous Propaganda Wins Over the Only Audience That Counts

   Why make an effort to be credible if you’re going to be uncritically
   echoed by the White House and Western press?
--
   Foreign Affairs. But of course, downloaded versions continue to
   circulate.

   Lying and propaganda are endemic to warfare. Public opinion is always
   as much a battlefield as actual territory. But in the case of Israel’s
   the civilian population of the besieged territory—propaganda has taken
   a bizarre turn. This is propaganda that barely makes any effort to
   convince, instead offering ludicrous arguments in implausible forms. To
   pay attention to Israeli propaganda in recent weeks is like watching a
   magic trick done by an inept conjurer who constantly lets the audience
   see the mirrors and wires that are supposed to create optical
   illusions.

   As Hussein Ibish, a resident scholar at the Arab Gulf States Institute
   notes, “Israel’s propaganda has always been ham-handed and ridiculous,
   but during this Gaza war, it has been so pathetically bad and jumped
   the shark so terribly that it’s going to be very difficult to restore
   any credibility at all with a great many people in the US and Europe.”
--
   it. The IDF blamed the fiasco on a “translation error.”

   On November 15, Middle East Monitor reported, “The Israeli army killed
   an elderly Palestinian after using him in a propaganda campaign
   promoting its ‘safe corridor’ in Gaza.” The IDF circulated a photo of
   the 79-year old man, Bashir Hajji, talking to IDF soldiers as proof of
   their careful shepherding of refugees fleeing the bombardment in the
--
   similar claims about mass shootings in the United States. It is
   astonishing for a government to make such claims.

   The biggest ongoing propaganda fiasco involves Al-Shifa hospital—one
   that deeply implicates not just the Israeli government but also the
   Biden administration. On October 13, the IDF released an elaborate
   drawing purporting to show the “the main headquarters for Hamas’
--
   policies by multiple governments (including the United States) to
   sideline the issue of Palestinian statehood.

   Israel’s poor propaganda is another indication of Israeli incompetence.
   Yet all these failures count for little as long as Israel benefits from
   the soft bigotry of low expectations by its supporters, including the
   president of the United States.
--
   when the errors are pointed out, these same videos are carefully edited
   to delete the falsehood when placed online, without an editorial note
   explaining or acknowledging what was cut. In effect, CNN is the IDF’s
   partner in propaganda.

   But then Israel’s half-baked propaganda isn’t aimed at regular people.
   The American public is quickly souring on Israel’s war. As Reuters
   reports, only 32 percent of Americans support Israel in this conflict,
   down from 41 percent a month ago. The same poll shows 68 percent
--
   Sadly, the fact that the public isn’t buying Israel’s campaign of lies
   counts for little. Foreign policy is made by elites. Biden and the US
   Congress are still firmly behind Israel. Even if Joe Biden is the only
   person on earth who really believes Israel’s propaganda, that is more
   than enough to make it successful.
   Keep Reading

