          + Careers
          + Support ACW

Disinformation and Hate Speech on Social Media Contribute to Inciting War
Crimes Against Gaza

   Oct 13, 2023 Tamara Kharroub
--
   emotions. As the fog of war and polarization make it difficult to
   verify information and find credible or reliable sources, social media
   platforms become vital information spaces. But those platforms also
   become part of the information warfare where disinformation and fake
   content are rampant, hate speech and incitement spread, and extreme and
   graphic content gets amplified by the algorithms of social media
   platforms and garner the most engagement and attention. Social media
   users share unverified, misleading, or miscaptioned content, spread
   doctored images and altered documents, and amplify baseless claims. In
   the coverage of the recent Hamas attack on Israel and the latter’s
   criminal bombardment of Gaza, the amount of disinformation, false
   content, and violent hate speech on social media platforms has reached
   unprecedented levels. This type of content incites further violence,
   manufactures support for war crimes, and impacts real world policy
--
   Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and social media content is fanning the
   flames of further violence.

Unprecedented Scale and Speed of Disinformation

   There is a flood of misinformation and falsehoods circulating on social
   media, claiming to show the recent events in Israel and Palestine,
   including mischaracterized content, misleading captions, false images,
   out-of-context and old videos, and video game footage. The level of
   disinformation, especially on X (formerly Twitter), has never been seen
   before and is spreading at accelerated speed due to its graphic and
   emotional nature, which in turn widens its reach. According to some
   analysts, 20 percent of the accounts participating in these
--
   especially after waves of layoffs at many tech companies like X and
   Meta, which impacted content and safety teams.

   While disinformation spreads on all social media sites, X is the most
   impactful as it has been the primary platform for political content,
   where users go first to find information on breaking news and
   developing events. However, after being acquired by Elon Musk, X has
   become the platform with the largest amount of disinformation and hate
   speech. Musk, who reposts far-right antisemitic accounts and verifiably
   false content, has eliminated teams that deal with disinformation and
   human rights and safety at the company, and instituted platform changes
   that made it easier for false information to spread. For example, the
   introduction of the $8 per month premium subscription in exchange for
--
   external links, reportedly for aesthetic reasons, could be further
   exacerbating the problem as articles are only represented by images
   without context. Musk’s efforts since taking over Twitter (now X) have
   essentially removed any existing guardrails on disinformation and hate
   speech, made it more difficult for researchers to study content and
   patterns on the platform, and made this information environment more
   susceptible to exploitation by malicious actors.
--

Hate Speech and the Silencing of Palestinian Narratives

   In addition to disinformation, hateful and violent content and cyber
   harassment have been rampant on social media platforms. Some
   organizations have identified thousands of cases of hate speech
   including antisemitism, islamophobia, and anti-Palestinian racism,
