   Article
   Europe's Edge

Behind the Lines: Propaganda Poisoning

   By Elina Beketova
   November 30, 2023

   Russia’s propaganda campaign in Ukraine’s occupied territories is
   producing a lot of content, but does it cut through?
   Photo: TV Appeal of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin to the
   citizens of Russia, personnel of the Armed Forces of the Russian
--
   with PMC Wagner. Credit: Photo by Artem Priakhin / SOPA Images/Sipa USA

   Immediately after the full-scale invasion in February 2022, Russia
   intensified its propaganda messaging through TV stations, newspapers,
   and other conventional outlets, but its main priority was online.

   Since creating content for TV channels and newspapers is expensive, the
--
   “More people are subscribed to the ‘official’ Telegram channels of the
   the information needed for living in the occupied territories.”

   The Russians exploit these subscriptions by posting propaganda material
   faked videos about life in Ukrainian-controlled territory posted on the
   channel of the Russian-appointed governor of the occupied part of
   Kherson Oblast, Nikitenko said.
--
   Throughout the war, the occupiers have struggled to create media that
   is popular among local residents. In March 2022 they seized the Kherson
   it to re-broadcast Russian channels until the creation of Tavria, a
   propaganda channel using Suspline’s infrastructure.

   Attempts to find local collaborators failed because most local media
   workers didn’t want to work with Russian forces, so people loyal to
--
   Black Sea port of Sevastopol, Crimea, October 27, 2018. Credit:
   REUTERS/Pavel Rebrov

   And the teenagers working on propaganda channels have attracted the
   attention of the Kremlin. Vlada Lugovskaya, who was 15 years old when
   she started working for Tavria, was presented with an award for courage
   by President Vladimir Putin at a ceremony in Moscow on International
--
   at Tavria.

   Despite Russia’s emphasis on new media, Serhii Nikitenko has convinced
   the biggest propaganda effect in Kherson was delivered by Russian
   television when it was broadcast in the occupied Ukrainian territory
   and the newspaper Naddneprianskaia pravda.

--
   been about 40 editions.”

   Nikitenko stresses the importance of working to counter Russian
   disinformation in the occupied territories using all means at Ukraine’s
   disposal, whether that’s Telegram, radio stations, or any other ways of
   contacting people, he said.

   The more time that passes, the more residents will see the distorted
   reality of the propaganda channels and the greater the risk they will
   be converted to the “Russian world” mentality, he warned.

   There have been multiple cases of people who live under Moscow’s rule
   in Donetsk and Luhansk repeating Russian propaganda, then taking up
   arms and going to war against their fellow citizens in other parts of
   Ukraine. That trend needs to be stopped.

--
   enim-poki-rosiya-namagayet-83649
   A Slow Wooing: Ukraine Makes the Anti-Imperial Case to Africa
   December 7, 2023
   Disinformation
   Europe's Edge
   Hybrid Threats
   Russia
