   #alternate China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow Disinformation, U.S.
   Says

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
--

   Today’s Paper

   Technology|China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow Disinformation, U.S.
   Says
   tate-department.html

--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow Disinformation, U.S. Says

   The accusations reflect worry in Washington that China’s information

--
   reading “Department of State.”
   The State Department reports that China is using various methods,
   including buying stakes in media organizations and using social media,
   to spread propaganda.Credit...Joshua Roberts/Reuters
   Steven Lee Myers

   By Steven Lee Myers
--
   to democratic principles around the world by promoting “digital
   authoritarianism.”

   China not only pushes its own propaganda, the report said, but exports
   digital surveillance tools to police information and people online.
   Although many of the tactics detailed are not new, the report warned
   that they could “lead nations to make decisions that subordinate their
--
   According to the State Department’s report released on Thursday,
   China’s efforts have evolved from a primary focus on promoting or
   defending the country’s political views on issues like Taiwan and Hong
   Kong to one that aims to sow disinformation to discredit the United
   States at home and abroad.

   That has included accusations about the origins of the Covid pandemic,
--
   channels broadcasting in 12 languages.

   The report said that China has spent billions of dollars to build an
   expansive state news operation under the Central Propaganda Department
   and the United Front Work Department, which the report said oversees
   investments in foreign media aimed at Chinese diaspora communities.

--

   The State Department’s Global Engagement Center was established in 2011
   with a focus on countering terrorism and violent extremism. In 2017
   Congress extended its mandate to focus on propaganda and
   disinformation.

   The impact of China’s effort can be difficult to measure, and the
   report suggests that the Chinese campaigns often encounter resistance
--
   Putin.” More about Steven Lee Myers
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 8 of
   the New York edition with the headline: China Accused of Spreading
   Disinformation. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
