
   Some quick background: In 2017, the Department of Homeland Security
   purview. The agency has since been key in garnering insight and
   spread of misinformation and disinformation online.

   The issue of online disinformation came to a head during the 2016
   presidential election, and it remains a problem in the lead-up to the
   2024 elections. Of course, many Republicans these days rely on
   propaganda rooted in falsehoods to advance their political goals, so
   they have portrayed federal agencies’ war against disinformation as a
   war on conservatives.

   That’s how we get to Tuesday’s interim staff report, which accuses CISA
--
   conclusions about content moderation.

   However, the committee’s chair, Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, isn’t letting
   the facts drown out some useful propaganda. He and his conservative
   allies have been building up to this report for several months now.
   ProPublica reported in March that Jordan had begun issuing “sweeping
   information requests” to universities and a think tank, in which he
--
   “censorship regime.”

   On June 6, The Washington Post reported on Kate Starbird, the
   co-founder of an anti-disinformation think tank at the University of
   Washington who has faced online harassment over her work. Some of the
   documents Jordan obtained relating to Starbird appear to form the basis

   For example, the report notes that Starbird formerly served as chair of
   the now-defunct Protecting Critical Infrastructure from Misinformation
   & Disinformation subcommittee, which the Department of Homeland
   Security established for disinformation experts to provide insight to
   CISA. The report cites communications from Starbird in which she
   expressed concern about public attention.

   And reading the report, one might conclude Starbird thought the
   advisory board had something to hide. But at the time, right-wing
   conspiracy theorists were spreading lies about the disinformation work
   within the DHS — including the creation of a now-defunct Disinformation
   Governance Board. With that as context, Starbird’s words read as though
   she’s simply concerned about the public perception of the advisory
   board’s work — perhaps even concerned that its intentions would be
