   #alternate alternate alternate Diálogo Américas » Feed Diálogo Américas
   » Comments Feed Diálogo Américas » Russian Propaganda and
   Disinformation Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   Skip to content

--

   Search for: ____________________ Search

   HomeAcademiaRussian Propaganda and Disinformation

Russian Propaganda and Disinformation

   Russian Propaganda and Disinformation
   Illustration/Diálogo

   BY Martin Verrier, associate fellow, Royal United Services Institute /
--
   the reader that the most effective campaign is the one that is won by
   indirect methods to break the enemy’s will to fight before the battle
   begins. In many ways, this principle remains the main objective of
   covert actions, propaganda and information operations.

   In February 2021, Twitter published a report documenting 373 accounts
   believed to be part of a coordinated effort by Iran, Armenia and Russia
--
   each other’s positions. This struggle can be traced back to the Cold
   War.

   Covert propaganda during the Cold War

   During the Cold War, both the U.S. and the Soviet Union relied on
   propaganda as an information operations tool to undermine and degrade
   their adversaries’ will to fight. By the 1970s, BBC broadcasts to the
   East bloc were listened to by almost 50% of the Soviet population,
   despite Soviet efforts to jam these transmissions. It is also true that
   the West effectively used propaganda to disseminate information on the
   benefits of capitalism. For example, Western films were used to
   propagate capitalism’s and democracy’s benefits, and to demonize
   communism. In the 1950s, the CIA bought the movie rights to George
   Orwell’s book “Animal Farm” to use as a propaganda tool in the East
   bloc. Western efforts to undermine communist governments in the East
   proved detrimental to Soviet performance during the Cold War.

--
   have links to East bloc intelligence agencies. Other tactics included
   supporting separatist and nationalist movements by financing
   information operations, and the intensive use of dezinformatsiya, or
   disinformation, campaigns that included blaming the spread of HIV on
   the CIA. During the Cold War, a large part of information operations
   was also oriented toward influencing local populations in the Soviet
   Union and satellite countries. The main objectives of this strategy
--
   documents as models to fabricate false war plans designed to build
   tension between countries. Agents of influence were another tool for
   conducting information operations. These agents recruited sympathizers,
   who weren’t aware that they were being used to spread disinformation.
   The World Peace Council’s campaign, including demonstrations against
   enhanced radiation weapons in the U.S., was an example of the Soviet
   use of agents of influence. Finally, the Soviet Union relied on
--
   fake news through conventional media outlets. While these campaigns
   were directed at domestic news outlets, Soviet agents also targeted the
   foreign press, inserting falsely attributed material. For instance, the
   TASS news agency oversaw the global spread of Soviet propaganda. It had
   a substantial overseas representation with more than 400 staff and
   correspondents in 126 countries. Many of them were connected to Soviet
   state security organs, including foreign intelligence.
--
   and how that can affect democracy and even the rule of law.
   Additionally, it has proved to the world how social media plays a vital
   role in propagating cleverly tailored messages and how traditional
   media can be used to spread disinformation or misinformation. Russia
   has shown that information operations can have more tangible results
   than in the past and may be used in a kinetic way with immediate
   tactical results.
--
   West. This is not the only link to the past. RT can be traced back to
   TASS and APN, media outlets that distributed tailored Soviet
   information around the world. With its speed, social media has
   revolutionized the way disinformation is spread. But the objectives
   remain similar to those of the Cold War agents of influence. Moreover,
   the current trend of using information operations to influence the
   Russian diaspora abroad is intimately related to its defensive
--

   December 04, 2023

   The ‘Evil Russian Disinformation Machine’ in Latin America

The ‘Evil Russian Disinformation Machine’ in Latin America

   December 04, 2023

