
   War in Ukraine

Facebook, Twitter remove disinformation accounts targeting Ukrainians

   The larger of the two disinformation groups operated in Russia, as well
   as the Russian-dominated Donbas and Crimea regions of Ukraine.
   Get more newson

--
   Facebook and Twitter removed two anti-Ukrainian “covert influence
   connections to Belarus, the companies said.

   One of the operations, a propaganda campaign featuring a website
   pushing anti-Ukraine talking points, was an offshoot of a known Russian
   disinformation operation. A Facebook spokesperson said it used
   computer-generated faces to bolster the credibility of fake columnists
   across several platforms, including Instagram.

   The other campaign used hacked accounts to push similar anti-Ukraine
   propaganda and was tied to a known Belarusian hacking group.

   Disinformation experts warned that Russia is expected to continue to
   try to manipulate narratives about Ukraine — most notably around the
   claims made by Russian President Vladimir Putin.

--
   military operation, which has since turned into a large-scale invasion.

   The announcement also demonstrates that Russia continues to use
   disinformation strategies first identified years ago around the 2016
   election, albeit with some advancements — most notably the use of
   software that can create realistic and original human faces.

   The larger of the two disinformation groups operated in Russia, as well
   as the Russian-dominated Donbas and Crimea regions of Ukraine, said
   Nathaniel Gleicher, Meta's head of security policy, and it is tied to
   the websites News Front and South Front, which the U.S. government has
   designated as part of a broader disinformation effort that had
   connections to Russian intelligence. (Meta is the parent company of
   Facebook.)

   Gleicher said in an interview that the propaganda campaign was able to
   “seed stories across the internet that Ukraine isn’t doing well” by
   “pretending to be journalists based in Kyiv.”

--
   connections to the accounts that were previously banned. Both websites
   have pushed misleading articles, questioning the results of the 2020
   presidential election and the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines. The State
   Department identified the websites as Russian disinformation outlets in
   a 2020 report.

   The websites featured articles pushing Russian talking points like
--
   and linked out to their accounts on VKontakte, Russia’s Facebook
   competitor.

   Facebook said it took down 40 profiles tied to the disinformation
   persona-building operation that spread across Twitter, Instagram,
   Telegram and Russian social networks.

--

   Twitter said it banned more than a dozen accounts tied to the News
   Front and South Front Russian operation, which were pushing links to a
   new propaganda site called Ukraine Today.

   “On Feb. 27, we permanently suspended more than a dozen accounts and
   blocked sharing of several links in violation of our platform
--
   taken down a series of channels tied to a Russian influence operation,
   though the channels have very low numbers of subscribers.

   Facebook said it took down a separate multipronged disinformation
   Ukrainians. The company said it hacked social media accounts to use
   them to spread pro-Russian propaganda.

   The hackers targeted journalists, military personnel and local public
   log into their Facebook profiles. The hacked accounts would then post a
--
   surrender.

   Facebook attributed the efforts to the hacking group Ghostwriter, which
   previously used hacked accounts to push disinformation that favored the
   Belarus government. The Ghostwriter hacking group works for the Belarus
   government, according to the cybersecurity firm Mandiant.

--
   some time to spin up a network of fake accounts.”
   Ben Collins

   Ben Collins covers disinformation, extremism and the internet for NBC
   News.
   Jo Ling Kent

