   #alternate E.U. Law Sets the Stage for a Clash Over Disinformation

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   (BUTTON) Search & Section Navigation
--

   Today’s Paper

   Technology|E.U. Law Sets the Stage for a Clash Over Disinformation
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/27/technology/disinformation-law-europe
   an-union.html
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

E.U. Law Sets the Stage for a Clash Over Disinformation

   The law, aimed at forcing social media giants to adopt new policies to
   curb harmful content, is expected to face blowback from Elon Musk, who
--
   his political opponent, who is also wearing a blue suit.
   Robert Fico, left, heads Slovakia’s SMER party. As the country heads
   toward an election on Saturday, it has been inundated with
   disinformation and other harmful content on social media
   sites.Credit...Jakub Gavlak/EPA, via Shutterstock
   Steven Lee Myers

--
   in Slovakia doctored to include an African man brandishing a machete.

   As Slovakia heads toward an election on Saturday, the country has been
   inundated with disinformation and other harmful content on social media
   sites. What is different now is a new European Union law that could
   force the world’s social media platforms to do more to fight it — or
   else face fines of up to 6 percent of a company’s revenue.
--

   The law, years of painstaking bureaucracy in the making, reflects a
   growing alarm in European capitals that the unfettered flow of
   disinformation online — much of it fueled by Russia and other foreign
   adversaries — threatens to erode the democratic governance at the core
   of the European Union’s values.

   Europe’s effort sharply contrasts with the fight against disinformation
   in the United States, which has become mired in political and legal
   debates over what steps, if any, the government may take in shaping
   what the platforms allow on their sites.
--
   of the world’s richest and most powerful companies remains a daunting
   challenge.

   That task is even more difficult for policing disinformation on social
   media, where anybody can post their views and perceptions of truth are
   often skewed by politics. Regulators would have to prove a platform had
   systemic problems that caused harm, an untested area of law that could
--

   In what officials and experts described as a warning shot to the
   platforms, the European Commission also released a damning report that
   studied the spread of Russian disinformation on major social media
   sites in the year after Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022.

   “It clearly shows that tech companies’ efforts were insufficient,” said
--
   just because of its election on Saturday. The country has become
   fertile ground for Russian influence because of historical ties. Now it
   faces what its president, Zuzana Caputova, described as a concerted
   disinformation campaign.

   Image
   A World War II monument outside Ladomirova, Slovakia. The country, with
--
   influence. Credit...Akos Stiller for The New York Times

   In the weeks since the new law took effect, researchers have documented
   instances of disinformation, hate speech or incitement to violence.
   Many stem from pro-Kremlin accounts, but more are homegrown, according
   to Reset.

--
   Russia.

   Facebook shut down the account of one of SMER’s candidates, Lubos
   Blaha, in 2022 for spreading disinformation about Covid. Known for
   inflammatory comments about Europe, NATO and L.G.B.T.Q. issues, Mr.
   Blaha remains active in Telegram posts, which SMER reposts on its
   Facebook page, effectively circumventing the ban.
