   #alternate alternate alternate U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian
   Disinformation: Pre-Empting It

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   (BUTTON) Search & Section Navigation
--

   Today’s Paper

   Technology|U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian Disinformation: Pre-Empting
   It
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/26/technology/russian-disinformation-us
   -state-department-campaign.html
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian Disinformation: Pre-Empting It

   The State Department’s Global Engagement Center is taking the unusual
   step of disclosing a covert Russian operation when it is barely off the
--

   People in coats in front of the Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra on a gray day.
   Thousands of believers gathered at the Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra in March. A
   recent article recycling disinformation about the Orthodox holy site
   was an example of an online Russian propaganda campaign in Central and
   South America.Credit...Laetitia Vancon for The New York Times
   Steven Lee Myers

--
   claimed — but because of its source and intended audience.

   State Department officials have linked the article to what they
   describe as a covert information operation to spread Russia propaganda
   in Central and South America by producing articles that appear to
   originate with local media organizations, not the Russian government.

--
   a region where Russia has sought to discredit the United States and
   erode international support for Ukraine.

   The center, which since 2017 has focused on combating propaganda and
   disinformation, routinely details Kremlin efforts, but identifying and
   trying to pre-empt a campaign when it is barely off the ground is a new
   tactic. It is one that reflects the realization that false narratives
   are harder to counter once they have already spread.
--
   in Brazil of an international organization, New Resistance, which
   embraces the views of Aleksandr Dugin, a former Soviet dissident who
   has become a prominent advocate of Russia’s imperial ambitions. The
   organization, the report said, promotes Russian disinformation, holds
   seminars and training courses and has supported paramilitary
   activities.

--

   The companies — the Social Design Agency, a public relations company,
   and Structura National Technologies, an information technology firm,
   both in Moscow — have been identified as sources in disinformation
   campaigns.

   Since July, the companies and their executives have faced punitive
   economic sanctions in the European Union for their involvement in
   disinformation around the war in Ukraine. That includes the creation of
   a news outlet, Recent Reliable News, which produced fake articles
   purporting to be from actual news organizations, including The
   Washington Post, and promoted them extensively online.
--
   influence efforts in Eastern Europe and the Baltics.

   He said it remained to be seen how effective the State Department’s
   effort to “prebunk” Russian propaganda would prove to be. Disputing
   false or misleading information in advance, he added, has worked well
   against specific events that can be anticipated or forecast.

--
   Putin.” More about Steven Lee Myers
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 10 of
   the New York edition with the headline: New U.S. Strategy Against
   Russian Propaganda Is to Expose It Early On. Order Reprints | Today’s
   Paper | Subscribe
   106
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
