   abysmally.’ Photograph: Matt Cardy/Getty Images
   OpinionAustralian media

Disinformation is setting us on a dark path. We need laws to protect us from
billionaires, bigots, shysters and trolls

   Alice Drury
--
   every single day.

   But alongside the memes, social media platforms are allowing
   disinformation to spread like wildfire, with frightening repercussions.
   Big tech companies make decisions about what content to amplify, and
   thus have a huge degree of power over public discourse. With that power
   comes a responsibility to prevent the spread of misinformation and
   disinformation. Right now, they’re failing abysmally.

   In Australia, as we’re seeing across the globe, disinformation is being
   used as a powerful weapon by far-right groups to gain public support
   for regressive movements that want to wind back human rights.
   Labor to overhaul misinformation bill after objections over freedom of
   speech
   Read more

   Most recently, disinformation was used in the referendum to sow
   confusion and undermine support for the voice to parliament. During the
   campaign, racism and fearmongering was rife on social media platforms,
   and amplified on television, radio and newspapers by traditional media.

   Disinformation targets people’s fears and anxieties to recruit them to
   extremist ideologies, and polarises our communities for political or
   financial gain. Once unleashed, it travels seamlessly across social
   media, between newspapers, talkback radio and messaging apps.

   Disinformation is extremely lucrative for digital platforms like Meta
   and X (formerly Twitter) and their multibillionaire owners.
   Disinformation captures our attention and guarantees our engagement
   online, which can be monetised to advertisers. The spread of
   disinformation isn’t accidental – it’s incentivised by the tech giants’
   business models. And yet we have no laws to stop this – or even uncover
   it.
     * Sign up for Guardian Australia’s free morning and afternoon email
--
   In Europe, lawmakers have responded by introducing the Digital Services
   Act, which requires large social media companies to undertake annual
   risk assessments, including the foreseeable impact on people’s human
   rights, with respect to disinformation spread through their algorithms
   and recommender systems. Social media companies must put into place
   reasonable, proportionate and effective mitigation measures for any
   risks identified, and these measures are overseen by a regulator.
--

   For the past few months, the Albanese government has been consulting
   widely on an exposure draft of a bill to take its first step towards
   curbing misinformation and disinformation on social media.

   The combating misinformation and disinformation bill would empower the
   Australian Communications and Media Authority to oversee the degree to
   which social media companies comply with their own codes of conduct
   and, where they fail, enforce them. The government’s first draft needs
   work – there are issues with what’s regarded as disinformation, for
   one. But the government has committed to addressing many of the
   concerns raised, and the proposal as a whole is hardly radical – it
   gives great deference to social media platforms and doesn’t go nearly
--
   Predictably, the proposal has sparked outrage from the Liberal party –
   confected, because it was originally their idea – and the likes of News
   Corp, the Australian Christian Lobby and Advance Australia. The draft
   bill, ironically, has been the subject of disinformation: Advance
   Australia (which faced a number of controversies for spreading
   disinformation in the 2022 election and voice referendum) have
   described it as creating a “Ministry of Truth” seeking to control
   Australians.
   skip past newsletter promotion
--
   after newsletter promotion

   Freedom of speech is precious and must be protected in any proposal to
   regulate disinformation. But that’s not what this outrage is about. If
   it were, the Liberal party, News Corp and Advance Australia would be
   advocating for amendments to the bill, but supporting its intent.
   Instead, they’re asking for it to be “ripped up”.
--
   and lie to the public, to win votes and wind back human rights. We must
   not let them win.

   Unregulated disinformation, incentivised by the profit motives of big
   tech companies, is wreaking havoc on our democracy. It is making the
   world a much more hostile and scarier place for Aboriginal and Torres
   Strait Islander people, transgender people, migrant communities and
--
   volatile.

   We need parliament to step in and pass laws that will protect our right
   to freedom of speech, while also shining a light on how disinformation
   is spread, and by whom. We then need social media companies to change
   the way they do business, so they’re no longer biased toward promoting
   hate speech and disinformation. We need users to have much more control
   over how their data is used and the ability to opt out of being
   profiled.

