   #alternate Disinformation Researchers Fret About Fallout From Judge’s
   Order

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
--

   Today’s Paper

   Media|Disinformation Researchers Fret About Fallout From Judge’s Order
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/05/business/media/disinformation-resear
   chers-judge-restrictions.html
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Disinformation Researchers Fret About Fallout From Judge’s Order

   They said a restriction on government interaction with social media
   companies could impede efforts to curb false claims about vaccines and
--
   a lectern on a stage.
   A federal judge’s decision specifically named some research
   organizations, including the Stanford Internet Observatory. Former
   President Barack Obama spoke about disinformation at Stanford last
   year.Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times
   Tiffany Hsu Stuart A. Thompson

--
   A federal judge’s decision this week to restrict the government’s
   communication with social media platforms could have broad side
   effects, according to researchers and groups that combat hate speech,
   online abuse and disinformation: It could further hamper efforts to
   curb harmful content.

   Alice E. Marwick, a researcher at the University of North Carolina at
   Chapel Hill, was one of several disinformation experts who said on
   Wednesday that the ruling could impede work meant to keep false claims
   about vaccines and voter fraud from spreading.

   The order, she said, followed other efforts, largely from Republicans,
   that are “part of an organized campaign pushing back on the idea of
   disinformation as a whole.”

   Judge Terry A. Doughty granted a preliminary injunction on Tuesday,
   saying the Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal
--
   remove content. Instead, they said, the government has historically
   notified companies about potentially dangerous messages, like lies
   about election fraud or misleading information about Covid-19. Most
   misinformation or disinformation that violates social platforms’
   policies is flagged by researchers, nonprofits, or people and software
   at the platforms themselves.

