   X
   This article is more than 2 months old

EU warns Elon Musk after Twitter found to have highest rate of disinformation

   This article is more than 2 months old

   Musk is told his platform, now known as X, must comply with new laws
   designed to combat fake news and Russian propaganda


   Lisa O'Carroll in Brussels
--
     *

   The EU has issued a warning to Elon Musk to comply with sweeping new
   laws on fake news and Russian propaganda, after X – formerly known as
   Twitter – was found to have the highest ratio of disinformation posts
   of all large social media platforms.

   The report analysed the ratio of disinformation for a new report laying
   bare for the first time the scale of fake news on social media across
   the EU, with millions of fake accounts removed by TikTok and LinkedIn.

--

   “Mr Musk knows he is not off the hook by leaving the code of practice,”
   said the European commissioner Věra Jourová, who is responsible for the
   implementation of the new anti-disinformation code.

   “There are obligations under the hard law. So my message for Twitter/X
   is you have to comply. We will be watching what you do.”

   “X, formerly Twitter … is the platform with the largest ratio of
   mis/disinformation followed by Facebook,” she told reporters.

   The 200-page report is an account of the work the large platforms have
   done in the first six months of 2023 to prepare for compliance with the
   new law and lifts the lid on the behind-the-scenes efforts made by
   Facebook and others to crack down on Russian propaganda, hate speech
   and other disinformation.

   “The Russian state has engaged in the war of ideas to pollute our
   information space with half truth and lies to create a false image that
--
   Tiktok removed almost 6m fake accounts and 410 unverifiable adverts.

   Google removed advertising from almost 300 sites linked to
   “state-funded propaganda sites” and rejected more than 140,000
   political advertisers for “failing identity verification processes”.

   Meta, the report says, expanded its fact-checking to 26 partners
--

   It reported that 37% of users also cancelled sharing when notified of
   fake news, a sign the EU says of the value consumers put on labelling
   disinformation.

   The EU is particularly concerned about continued Russian propaganda in
   social media before key elections in Slovakia on Sunday and in Poland
   on 15 October.

--
   in relation to 800,000 search queries about the war in Ukraine.

   Jourová said the report was evidence that Russia was engaged in a “war
   of ideas” and that Kremlin disinformation was still very prevalent
   across the large platforms.
   What makes Elon Musk tick? I spent months following the same people as
   him to find out who fuels his curious worldview
--

   She said one of her main messages to the large platforms was to be
   aware of elections, including those for the European parliament next
   year, and the “risk of disinformation”.

   She said the Kremlin propaganda was “a multimillion-euro weapon of mass
   manipulation aimed both internally at the Russians as well as Europeans
   and the rest of the world. And we must address this. The very large
   platforms must address this risk.”

   The war in Ukraine was the most frequent topic for propaganda but the
   platforms also reported hate speech in relation to migration, LBGTQ+
   communities and the climate crisis.

   “I think it is one of the advantages of disinformation, is that they
   are so predictable,” said Jourová, making it easier for factcheckers to
   find.

   On Twitter, she said “disinformation actors were found to have
   significantly more followers than their non-disinformation counterparts
   and tend to have joined the platform more recently than
   non-disinformation users”.
   Explore more on these topics
     * X
     * Elon Musk
