   Illustration: Mark Harris/The Guardian
   AI and the US electionUS elections 2024

Disinformation reimagined: how AI could erode democracy in the 2024 US
elections

   Advances in generative artificial intelligence could supercharge the
   propaganda playbook, experts warn


   Nick Robins-Early
--
   Read more

   Now, as the 2024 presidential election comes into view, experts warn
   that advances in AI have the potential to take the disinformation
   tactics of the past and breathe new life into them.

   AI-generated disinformation not only threatens to deceive audiences,
   but also erode an already embattled information ecosystem by flooding
   it with inaccuracies and deceptions, experts say.

--

   In some ways, these images and ads are not so different from the
   manipulated images and video, misleading messages and robocalls that
   have been a feature of society for years. But disinformation campaigns
   formerly faced a range of logistic hurdles – creating individualized
   messages for social media was incredibly time consuming, as was
   Photoshopping images and editing videos.
--
   accessible to anyone with even basic digital skills, amid limited
   guardrails or effective regulation to curtail it. The potential effect,
   experts warn, is a sort of democratization and acceleration of
   propaganda right at a time when several countries enter major election
   years.

AI lowers the bar for disinformation

   The potential harms of AI on elections can read like a greatest hits of
   concerns from past decades of election interference. Social media bots
--
   influence US elections or undermine their integrity, as federal
   officials have long warned Russia and China are working to do. Language
   barriers to creating deceptive content are eroding, and telltale signs
   of scammers or disinformation campaigns using repetitive phrasing or
   strange word choices are being replaced with more believable texts.

   “If you’re sitting in a troll farm in a foreign country, you no longer
--
   question what role artificial intelligence will play in the vote. The
   creation of misleading AI-generated content alone doesn’t mean that it
   will have an effect on an election, researchers say, and measuring the
   impact of disinformation campaigns is a notoriously difficult task.
   It’s one thing to monitor the engagement of fake materials but another
   to gauge the secondary effects of polluting the information ecosystem
   to the point where people generally distrust any information they
--

   But there are concerning signs. Just as the use of generative AI is
   increasing, many of the social media platforms that bad actors rely on
   to spread disinformation have begun rolling back some of their content
   moderation measures – YouTube reversed its election integrity policy,
   Instagram allowed the anti-vaccine conspiracy theorist Robert F Kennedy
   Jr back on its platform and Twitter’s head of content moderation left
