   information.

   China's goal is to "construct an information ecosystem in which PRC
   propaganda and disinformation gain traction and become dominant," the
   report states. "Unchecked, the PRC's [People's Republic of China's]
   efforts will reshape the global information landscape, creating biases
   and gaps that could even lead nations to make decisions that
--

   U.S. officials said during the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic
   that China was making greater use of social media to spread
   disinformation about the origins of the virus.
   A technician assembles coronavirus test kits at the Evolve
   manufacturing facility in Fremont, Calif., March 26, 2020. The U.S. is
   seeing Russian, Chinese and Iranian COVID-19 disinformation campaigns
   converging, a State Department official says. A technician assembles
   coronavirus test kits at the Evolve manufacturing facility in Fremont,
   Calif., March 26, 2020. The U.S. is seeing Russian, Chinese and Iranian
   COVID-19 disinformation campaigns converging, a State Department
   SEE ALSO:

US Pushes Back Against Coronavirus Disinformation

   Just a year later, in its annual threat assessment, the Office of the
   Director of National Intelligence said Beijing would "continue its
--

   "A quick look at its [the report's] summary is enough to know what it
   is about: heightening ideological confrontation, spreading
   disinformation, and smearing China's domestic and foreign policies,"
   Liu said. "We urge the U.S. to reflect on itself, stop framing China
   for the so-called 'information manipulation.'"

--
   "When targeting democratic countries, Beijing has encountered major
   setbacks, often due to pushback from local media and civil society,"
   the report states. "Although backed by unprecedented resources, the
   PRC's propaganda and censorship have, to date, yielded mixed results."

   That assessment tracks with conclusions from Meta, the social media
   company behind Facebook and Instagram, which in August announced the
   takedown of a Chinese-linked disinformation operation known as
   Spamouflage.

   Meta said that while Spamouflage was "the largest known cross-platform
--
   And there are indications that China has become more sophisticated.

   A report earlier this month from Microsoft suggests that Chinese
   disinformation efforts successfully used artificial intelligence to
   produce "eye-catching content."

   "This relatively high-quality visual content has already drawn higher
