   Tech News
   Tech News

How the GOP muzzled the quiet coalition that fought foreign propaganda

   The FBI put a pause on briefings with tech companies due to an ongoing
   lawsuit, adding to a broader breakdown in a system meant to guard
--

   A once-robust alliance of federal agencies, tech companies, election
   officials and researchers that worked together to thwart foreign
   propaganda and disinformation has fragmented after years of sustained
   Republican attacks.

   The GOP offensive started during the 2020 election as public critiques
--
   cybersecurity and has become a favorite target of Republicans, has
   halted its outreach to Silicon Valley, and the Department of Homeland
   Security has shuttered a board designed to coordinate its
   anti-disinformation programs.

   “Some of these efforts really are designed to isolate people and make
   them feel like they can’t communicate with CISA, like they can’t
--
   President Donald Trump and many other conservatives refused to accept
   the loss and lashed out at political enemies. They targeted a number of
   election integrity operations, including the channels that shared
   information on disinformation, often accusing them of censoring
   conservative voices.

   Many of them focused on Twitter and Facebook’s decision to temporarily
--
   2022, the Department of Homeland Security created a board to help
   coordinate its own response to viral falsehoods, prompting outcry from
   conservatives who claimed the government was policing speech. Nina
   Jankowicz, a researcher who studies disinformation and technology, was
   brought in to run the board and quickly became the target of a
   debilitating harassment campaign. Homeland Security shut down the board
   five months later.
--
   Biden’s head of CISA, Jen Easterly, a decorated intelligence official
   who had no prior experience in a public government role, started her
   tenure with optimism that her agency played a major role confronting
   disinformation.

   “One could argue we’re in the business of critical infrastructure, and
   the most critical infrastructure is our cognitive infrastructure, so
   building that resilience to misinformation and disinformation, I think,
   is incredibly important,” she said at a talk hosted by Wired magazine
   in her first year on the job.

   But Easterly, who frequently characterizes herself as nonpartisan, soon
   withdrew the agency from roles that most actively fought
   disinformation. Aside from maintaining a webpage that corrects common
   misconceptions about how elections work, CISA now focuses more on goals
   like protecting poll workers’ physical safety, connecting election
   officials with cybersecurity resources, and pushing software companies
--

   One current X employee, who wasn’t authorized to speak for the company,
   said they had no remaining faith that the company could handle
   propaganda campaigns.

   “The company no longer has the team, the tools, or the capabilities to
   identify and mitigate these attacks,” they said.
