   #alternate Russia Intensifies Its Propaganda Campaign Against Ukraine

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Politics
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Russia Intensifies Its Propaganda Campaign Against Ukraine

   A new push by the Kremlin frames the war as a counterterrorism
   and researchers say.
--
   By Julian E. Barnes
   Oct. 26, 2022

   WASHINGTON — Since before the war, Russia has spread disinformation
   about its need to stamp out Nazism in Ukraine. But in recent days,
   Moscow’s propaganda has shifted, arguing that it is battling terrorism
   and falsely accusing Ukraine of planning a dirty bomb attack as part of
   that narrative.

   The new propaganda, spread on social media and in the news, also
   includes unsupported allegations that the Ukrainian government intends
   to destroy a dam in its own territory, according to European and
   American government officials and independent researchers.
--
   “They seem to have decided on a talking point that this is a
   counterterrorism operation now,” said Kyle Walter, who leads the U.S.
   investigation team at Logically, a tech start-up that helps governments
   and businesses counter disinformation. “Rather than framing this as
   something that’s anti-Nazi or anti-Satanist, you now have a concerted
   effort to frame it as a counterterrorism operation.”

   The counterterrorism narratives, according to American officials, are
   part of a wider propaganda web, all aimed at making Russians feel more
   involved in the war.

   The Kremlin, which has begun calling its fight in Ukraine the people’s
   war, is trying to convince its public that the conflict is not a war of
   choice for Moscow, but an existential fight to save the country.
   Russian officials have used the disinformation about dirty bomb attacks
   to highlight other attacks inside Russia by Ukraine, and stoke anger
   toward Ukraine with the Russian people, according to American and
   European officials.
--
   ratchet up tensions without incurring the wrath of its population or
   further undermining support for Mr. Putin.

   Using disinformation and propaganda is an important part of Mr. Putin’s
   playbook. Before the invasion, Moscow began pushing a variety of false
   narratives about Ukraine. Researchers at Logically and other firms
   tracked an increase in accusations that Ukrainians were Nazis and were
--

   Now, U.S. officials are divided over whether Russia actually believes
   Ukraine intends to conduct a terrorism campaign, including use of a
   dirty bomb, or if the propaganda push is purely an excuse to justify
   tougher action.

   Some American officials said that given other covert Ukrainian action,
--
   Russian officials have convinced themselves, potentially based on
   faulty intelligence, that Ukraine has a dirty bomb.

   And the Russian news media has spread disinformation about a dirty bomb
   attack while discussing actual Ukrainian actions, such as the bridge
   strike, the car bomb and attacks against arms depots in Crimea and
   Russia.
--
   he wrote about security matters for The Wall Street Journal. More about
   Julian E. Barnes
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 10 of
   the New York edition with the headline: Russian Propaganda Frames War
   as Against Terror. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe

   Advertisement
