


Distribution of White supremacist propaganda reached the second-highest level
in 2021, ADL says

   Nicole Chavez
--
   Link Copied!

   Anti-Semitic flyers like this one found outside a home in Miami Beach
   in January were among the type of White supremacist propaganda
   distributed last year, the ADL says.
   Anti-Semitic flyers like this one found outside a home in Miami Beach
   in January were among the type of White supremacist propaganda
   distributed last year, the ADL says.
   From Dan Gelber/Twitter
   CNN  —

   The distribution of White supremacist propaganda in 2021 reached the
   second-highest level recorded since the Anti-Defamation League began
   tracking it, the group announced on Thursday.

--
   and anti-LGBTQ fliers, stickers, banners and posters distributed in the
   United States, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) said. That’s an average

   While hateful propaganda was reported in every state except Hawaii, the
   states of Pennsylvania, Virginia and Texas had the most reports with
   more than 300 documented incidents each, according to the report.

   The ADL began publishing its data on White supremacist propaganda
   distribution in 2016.
   COLLEYVILLE, TEXAS - JANUARY 16: A law enforcement vehicle sits near
   the Congregation Beth Israel synagogue on January 16, 2022 in
--
   forcing Jewish Americans to be more vigilant

   In its report released Thursday, the ADL noted there was an increase in
   the number of incidents involving propaganda targeting Jewish
   institutions or including overt anti-Semitic language. There were 352
   documented cases last year, compared to 277 in 2020, the ADL said.

--
   language being distributed in several other states.

   Jonathan Greenblatt, the CEO of the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), said
   White supremacists are resorting more frequently to hate propaganda as
   a tactic to spread their noxious ideas and recruit new membership.

   There were at least 38 White supremacist groups involved in
   distributing propaganda but the ADL attributed 91% of the activity to
   three groups – Patriot Front, the New Jersey European Heritage
   Association and Folkish Resistance Movement.

--
   now,” Greenblatt said.

   There has been an increase in domestic extremist activity in recent
   years with the use of propaganda rising to a “historic level” in 2020.

   Oren Segal, vice president of ADL’s Center on Extremism warned
   communities across the country to be prepared because hateful
   propaganda “is more coordinated than ever before” and is “often
   incubated and amplified online.”

   Related
