
Breadcrumb

    1. Disinformation and propaganda
    2. Digital space and democracy
    3. News

From Twitter to X, Elon Musk’s transformation from free speech defender to
champion of disinformation

   AFP
   Organisation:
--

   Since becoming Twitter’s official owner on 27 October 2022,
   self-proclaimed free-speech defender Elon Musk has transformed the
   social media now called X into a sanctuary for disinformation.
   Reporters Without Borders (RSF) now regards X as the embodiment of the
   threat that online platforms pose to democracies.

   In the course of a year in which he has humiliated public media and
   censored journalists, the businessman ranked by Forbes as the world’s
   richest person has shattered what was one of the few social media
   bulwarks against disinformation and has instead become one of the
   strongest allies of disinformation producers.

   The most dangerous decisions for access to reliable information have
   included transforming account certification. From a security system
--
   Israel-Hamas war, claims that have been viewed 100 million times.

     “Elon Musk has completed his transformation from free speech
     defender to champion of disinformation. Most of his decisions have
     had the effect of strengthening disinformation producers and
     weakening access to reliable news and information on his platform.
     What with the insults that he personally aims at the professional
     news media and the new anti-information direction that X is taking
     under his leadership, journalists and news media are no longer
     welcome there. Twitter was already an unsafe network for
     information, but X has become disinformation’s stronghold.”

     Vincent Berthier
     Head of RSF’s Tech Desk

   Twitter’s transformation has been political as well as technical. Under
   Musk’s leadership, Twitter ceased to be a signatory to the European
   Union's code of good practice against disinformation, now the code of
   conduct of the Digital Services Act (DSA). The social media company
   also carried out mass layoffs, especially within the “Trust and Safety”
   teams responsible for protecting platform users, including moderation.
   These decisions have necessarily strengthened disinformation’s
   competitive advantage over content that is in the public interest.

   In RSF’s view, X embodies the fundamental problem posed by large
