
Russia Takes Its Ukraine Information War Into Video Games

   Propaganda is appearing in Minecraft and other popular games and
   discussion groups as the Kremlin tries to win over new audiences.
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
--
   Reporting from San Francisco
   July 30, 2023

   Russian propaganda is spreading into the world’s video games.

   In Minecraft, the immersive game owned by Microsoft, Russian players
   re-enacted the battle for Soledar, a city in Ukraine that Russian
--

   These games and adjacent discussion sites like Discord and Steam are
   becoming online platforms for Russian agitprop, circulating to new,
   mostly younger audiences a torrent of propaganda that the Kremlin has
   used to try to justify the war in Ukraine.

   In this virtual world, players have adopted the letter Z, a symbol of
--
   “The gaming world is really a platform that can impact public opinion,
   to reach an audience, especially young populations,” said Tanya Bekker,
   a researcher at ActiveFence, a cybersecurity company that identified
   several examples of Russian propaganda on Minecraft for The New York
   Times.

   Image
--
   have also sought to encourage enlistments when Russian combat
   casualties were taking an enormous toll.

   “The propaganda mainly seeks to make Wagner and the Russian military
   look cool and menacing,” Mr. Watts told the researchers, who were
   examining extremism in video games.

--
   home or among Russian speakers in neighboring countries, including
   Ukraine.

   “Russian propaganda is trying new things to promote its regime,” said
   Artem Starosiek, the head of Molfar, a Ukrainian consultancy that
   analyzes online threats.

--
   Ministry forces to celebrate Russia Day.Credit...via YouTube

   Molfar’s researchers identified more than a dozen instances of
   pro-Kremlin propaganda in Minecraft, Roblox, the Russian versions of
   World of Tanks and World of Warships, Fly Corp, Armored Warfare and War
   Thunder. Almost all extolled the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany, a
   theme Mr. Putin and his advisers have used to build support for today’s
--

   A company in Germany made a video game, Death From Above, that
   simulates Ukrainian drone attacks on Russian forces. The company’s
   owner called it “a propaganda game.” A newspaper in Finland, Helsingin
   Sanomat, used the video game Counter-Strike to create a conduit for
   factual information about the war to a Russian audience largely
   shielded from it.
--
   Joseph Brown, an assistant professor at Thompson Rivers University in
   British Columbia, spent five years teaching about video game
   development in Russia, and said he had seen firsthand the country’s
   commitment to propaganda through video games and other forms of media.

   “They need to get everybody back on board with the war,” Dr. Brown
   said. “It’s another piece of this whole puzzle of constant propaganda,
   all the time. In every single medium they can get to you with, they
   will get to you.”

--
   covers the gig economy, the video game industry and general tech news.
   More about Kellen Browning
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section B, Page 1 of
   the New York edition with the headline: Russia Takes Propaganda Into
   Gaming. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
