   #alternate alternate alternate alternate China’s ‘Absurd’ Covid
   Propaganda Stirs Rebellion

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   (BUTTON) Search & Section Navigation
--

   Today’s Paper

   Business|China’s ‘Absurd’ Covid Propaganda Stirs Rebellion
   https://www.nytimes.com/2022/09/29/business/china-covid-propaganda.html
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

China’s ‘Absurd’ Covid Propaganda Stirs Rebellion

   The use of propaganda in the country has been on overdrive in the
   pandemic, with some Chinese citizens arguing the language has bordered
   on “nonsense.”
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
--
   coronavirus policies.

   China is now one of the last places on earth trying to eliminate
   Covid-19, and the Communist Party has relied heavily on propaganda to
   justify increasingly long lockdowns and burdensome testing requirements
   that can sometimes lead to three tests a week.

--

   “I was extremely angry, panicked and despairing,” said Mr. Xue, who
   works for a financial communications firm. He eventually turned to
   neighbors for help. “The propaganda was resolute and decisive, but it
   was different from the reality that we didn’t even know whether we
   could have the next meal.”

--
   lockdowns, mass testing and contact tracing.Credit...Gilles Sabrié for
   The New York Times

   Propaganda has long been one of the Chinese Communist Party’s favored
   tools for social control. But in the Covid era, the government’s use of
   it has been on overdrive. By some estimates, at least 120 Covid-related
   propaganda phrases have been created since the beginning of the
   pandemic.

   When certain terms risked upsetting large numbers of people, officials
--
   to his apartment for two months during a lockdown this year, had grown
   tired of them all.

   “With the Covid control, propaganda and state power expanded and
   occupied all aspects of our life,” he said in a phone interview. Day
   after day, Mr. Yang heard loudspeakers in his neighborhood repeatedly
   broadcasting a notice for P.C.R. testing. He said the announcements had
   disturbed his sleep at night and woke him up at dawn.

   “Our life was dictated and disciplined by propaganda and state power,”
   he said.

   To communicate his frustrations, Mr. Yang selected 600 common Chinese
   propaganda phrases, such as “core awareness,” “obey the overall
   situation” and “the supremacy of nationhood.” He gave each phrase a
   number and then put the numbers into Google’s Random Generator, a
   program that scrambles data.
--

   When Mr. Yang uploaded a video of the scene online, however, more than
   1.3 million people viewed it. Many praised the way he used government
   language as satire. Chinese propaganda was “too absurd to be criticized
   using logic,” Mr. Yang said. “I simulated the discourse like a mirror,
   reflecting its own absurdity.”

Spoofing Chinese propaganda:

   Credit...Yang Xiao

--
   His video was taken down by censors.

   Mr. Yang added that he hoped to inspire others to speak out against
   China’s Covid policies and its use of propaganda in the pandemic. He
   wasn’t the only Shanghai resident to rebel when the city was locked
   down.

--
   Hong Kong and international human rights law in the United States. He
   is currently based in Hong Kong. More about Zixu Wang
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section B, Page 1 of
   the New York edition with the headline: China’s Covid Propaganda, Often
   Seen as Absurd, Stirs Rebellion. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper |
   Subscribe
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
