
   Annals of Communications

Inside Putin’s Propaganda Machine

   Current and former employees describe Russian state television as an
   army, one with a few generals and many foot soldiers who never question
--
   (BUTTON) Save this story

   Six nights a week, Vladimir Solovyov, one of the dominant voices in
   Russian propaganda, gathers a half-dozen pundits for more than two
   hours of what appears to be unscripted political crosstalk. Most recent
   episodes have been devoted to mocking Ukraine and its allies—especially
   the United States and President Biden—and debating Russia’s options.
--
   Russia: people in Britain can’t afford heat, Germans could be forced to
   ride bikes because gas prices are rising, stock markets are falling,
   and Western Europe may be facing a food crisis. Revelatory topics focus
   on misinformation and disinformation in the West. These may include
   stories about Ukrainian refugees exposing their true criminal selves by
   shoplifting in a Western European country, or a segment about Austin
   Tice, an American journalist who was kidnapped in Syria, in 2012,
--
   least some of the Kremlin’s media managers hadn’t known that the
   invasion was coming. Now television is all war all the time; in
   addition to talk shows and newscasts, there are special reports that
   claim to debunk Western and Ukrainian propaganda or to expose the roots
   of so-called Ukrainian fascism, and fictional dramas on the Great
   Patriotic War, Russia’s term for the Soviet part of the Second World
   War. In the past, journalists in television and print media would be
--
   what sounds like discussion, within the narrow space defined by
   authorities. On April 26th, he and Margarita Simonyan, who runs both
   Rossiya Segodnya, a domestic state-news holding, and RT, the
   international arm of the television-propaganda machine, discussed a
   purported plot to assassinate them and several other propagandists that
   had ostensibly been foiled by the secret police a day earlier. Footage
   of the raid looked like a parody—among the evidence police claimed to
--
   to have been carried out by Russia’s security service, the F.S.B.; he
   has been in prison for more than a year. “Can you even imagine the
   things he would have done here, if he hadn’t been jailed?” Simonyan
   said. Before I dived into watching Russian propaganda, Lev Gudkov, an
   independent sociologist, told me that television rhetoric was based on
   “ascribing their own traits to the opponent.” It really is that simple.
   Solovyov and his guests, along with the other news anchors, reporters,
--
   people currently employed by a Russian state channel who agreed to
   speak to me directly.)

   I wanted to test my hypothesis—that Russian propaganda is designed not
   to convince its audience that Ukrainians are Nazis and that Russia is
   waging a defensive war but to muddy the waters, to create the
   impression that nothing is true. Does truth exist? I asked. “Truth
--
   with the “Z”—and the word “PRESS” across the chest of his bulletproof
   vest.

   The Russian state and its propaganda machine form a feedback loop.
   Putin watches his own television and quotes it back to itself, the
   television amplifies the message, and so on. Messages can originate
   anywhere along this closed loop. On February 12th, Maria Baronova, a
--
   “demilitarization and de-Nazification of Ukraine.” Baronova couldn’t
   find an instance of the term “de-Nazification” being used by Russians
   (not in reference to Germany) that preceded her Telegram post. The
   propaganda machine had been calling Ukrainians Nazis for years, but
   this word was novel; it had come to her following a fight with a
   Russian-speaking friend in the United States. “I pulled it out of my
   ass for that post,” she told me. “And then, when they were scraping
--
   It’s not an unlikely theory: autocratic ideologies in general, and
   Putin’s in particular, are cobbled together on the fly. Usable words
   and quotable quotes are few and far between—that is, among other
   things, why the propaganda machine makes such extensive use of a couple
   of Putin’s sayings from 2018, the ones about Russians going straight to
   Heaven and about not needing a world in which there is no Russia.
   Baronova’s job was to write and edit neediest-case-type stories to
--
   New Yorker.
   Masha Gessen became a staff writer at The New Yorker in 2017. Their
   latest book is “Surviving Autocracy.”
   More:RussiaPropagandaVladimir PutinUkraineMedia

Daily

