
   Press Freedom

Russian Propaganda Presents Fringe Views in US as Mainstream

   November 22, 2023 3:48 PM

--
   Share


   Russian Propaganda Presents Fringe Views in US as Mainstream

   share

--
   ideals in Congress.

   Extremes of the political spectrum are wrapped into Russian
   disinformation efforts to both amplify issues and lend an air of
   legitimacy to anti-Western and anti-Ukrainian narratives, said Nina
   Jankowicz, vice president of the Centre for Information Resilience and
   a former disinformation chief under the Biden administration.

   “We see Russia identifying individuals on the left or right of the
   political spectrum who might already be critics of NATO, critics of
--
   references spiked following the full-scale invasion.

   The key narratives of Carlson selected by Soloviev and Russian
   propaganda channels include the conservative pundit’s false claims that
   Christians in Ukraine are persecuted, that America’s white population
   is oppressed and Tucker’s characterization of some U.S. media coverage

--
   between the Russian and U.S. organizations, she said.

   Jankowicz said that while she was in her role on the U.S.
   Disinformation Governance Board, American right-wing media outlets
   falsely characterized the board’s role as being to censor Americans.

   “This was absolutely not true, and within a couple of days after that,
   we saw [the same report] on Russian Channel One with the same quotes,
   the same pictures, the same narratives overarching,” Jankowicz said.

   The disinformation governance board — formed by the U.S. Homeland
   Security Department to counter misinformation — was disbanded after

   Featuring statements from American figures and media outlets lends a
--
   Dominik Stecula, an assistant professor of political science at
   Colorado State University who focuses on political polarization, has
   seen similar trends. Stecula said the commentator Carlson has repeated
   Russian propaganda narratives on his TV show.

   But Carlson’s departure from Fox in April, along with a shift in media
   attention to other news stories such as the Israeli-Hamas conflict,
--

   Another aspect that unites some far-left and far-right political actors
   is populism, Stecula said. “They were repeating some of the Russian
   propaganda about Ukraine, about politicians in Ukraine, like President

   The academic said that far-right actors in the U.S. root their
   narratives primarily in the idea of America-first nationalism, while
--
Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in Israel-Hamas Conflict
       A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

Kremlin Propaganda on Uptick in Latin America
       in Washington, D.C., Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA) FILE - The U.S. Agency
       for Global Media logo at Voice of America, in Washington, D.C.,
       Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA)
