
   Africa

Can Civil Society and Private Organizations Combat Russian Propaganda in
Africa?

   September 18, 2023 9:41 AM
--
     *


   Can Civil Society and Private Organizations Combat Russian Propaganda
   in Africa?

   share
--
   (BUTTON) Print
   WASHINGTON —

   As Russia makes significant gains in its disinformation campaigns in
   Africa, experts say civil society groups and private organizations may
   hold the key to counter such propaganda.

   Since Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine two years ago, analysts say the
   Kremlin has been using disinformation spread through social media to
   court other nations as it faces global isolation.

   Dan Whitman, a foreign policy analyst and fellow at Philadelphia-based
   think tank Foreign Policy Research Institute, told VOA that Moscow has
   recently made “tremendous successes” in its disinformation campaigns on
   the continent, exploiting political instability in regions like the
   Sahel and Central Africa, and in nations like Mozambique.

   “I would say (in) two or three years, (Russia) has made the most rapid
   propaganda successes in the history of propaganda,” Whitman said,
   adding “instability is the Garden of Eden for disinformation.”

   Whitman says Russia doesn’t cause instability but takes advantage of
   existing instability, unlike other major powers. He said the difference
--

   Whitman also highlighted the worry of possible Russian interference in
   the 2024 U.S. elections, as in previous elections, emphasizing the need
   for a mechanism to hold the Kremlin accountable for its disinformation
   activities. He suggested empowering civil society groups and private
   organizations, with support from the U.S. government and Western
   European governments, to counter Russian disinformation.

   “I believe that small start-ups, private organizations and community
   groups like debunk.org in Lithuania, should be empowered to counter
   Russia’s disinformation. I hope they have open and transparent support
   from the U.S. government and governments of Western Europe,” Whitman
   told VOA.

   Neil Melvin, director of International Security Studies at the
   London-based Royal United Security Institute, or RUSI, says while
   Russia seeks to advance its propaganda narrative, describing its
   efforts as the “biggest propaganda victory ever,” may be an
   exaggeration — even as Russia takes an opportunistic approach in
   regions with instability, aiming to establish partnerships with
   military groups seeking power.
--
     * 720p | 77.1MB
     * 1080p | 126.7MB

   Fighting Disinformation

   Melvin said disinformation is not solely a Russian effort, as China and
   Iran also engage in state-backed disinformation campaigns, which many
   countries struggle to effectively counter.

   “Civil society becomes almost a security asset because they challenge
   the disinformation that sometimes is coming down mainstream channels,”
   he told VOA’s English to Africa Service. “Maybe this is the moment for
   the African Union or some of the regional organizations to try and set
   up their own independent media monitoring organizations to make sure
   that the population can push back on Russian disinformation.”

   According to the Africa Center for Strategic Studies, an academic and
   research program focused on security, in 2022, 60% of Africa’s more
   than 50 documented disinformation campaigns were externally
   coordinated.

   However, the center says, figures of externally driven disinformation
   campaigns in Africa may not be entirely accurate with the growing trend
   of using local influencers to disseminate content, making their origins
   harder to trace.
--
   China to “influence Africa’s conversation.”

   “In the past five months, what I have been seeing is a calculative
   spread of disinformation that seems to glorify Russia and the Wagner
   Group as if they’re the only way out to Africa’s problems,” Jonathan
   told VOA. He said he has observed social media users posting
   disinformation-and-misinformation to counter African democracy,
   emphasizing rhetoric for Africa to align with Russia.

   Jonathan said organizations and coalitions should be working to raise
   awareness of Russia’s disinformation efforts on social media.

   “What I have been doing is to assess social media awareness of Russia’s
   disinformation in Africa, and to find out whether Africans are even
   aware of such subtle influences.”

   This story originated in VOA’s English to Africa Service.
