   #The Vanderbilt Hustler RSS 2.0 The Vanderbilt Hustler RSS .92 The
   Vanderbilt Hustler Atom 0.3 The Vanderbilt Hustler » GUEST EDITORIAL: I
   used to promote Zionist propaganda Comments Feed alternate

   (BUTTON) Menu

--
   (BUTTON) Open Search Bar
   Search this site ____________________ (BUTTON) Submit Search

GUEST EDITORIAL: I used to promote Zionist propaganda

   A Vanderbilt alum shares their journey from on-campus Israel advocate
   to Palestinian liberation activist.
--
   untold atrocities.

   As the trip went on, however, the focus shifted from unbiased education
   to propaganda, although I didn’t realize it at the time. We traveled to
   the Israeli settlement of Almog in the West Bank, where the settlers
   explained their moral responsibility to “take back their rightful
   land.” They did not mention that, according to the U.N. and Amnesty
--
   a kilometer away in Gaza, who lived with that same fear but without any
   bomb shelters.

   After we returned home, the propaganda intensified. We were all offered
   positions as paid interns for TDP, which I eagerly accepted. I started
   hosting collaborative events with various multicultural organizations
   on campus, talking to my friends at Vanderbilt about my trip and
--
   pressure well-intentioned students into supporting Israel, and
   unfortunately, it worked on me.

   I often feel ashamed of myself for succumbing to the propaganda. I
   should have been more critical, done more research and avoided TDP in
   the first place. I’m embarrassed by how little it took to buy my
   support, how much harm I caused my peers at Vanderbilt and how long I
--
   sleep, but I would not want to live normally in ignorance while my
   siblings in Palestine suffer. Now, I hope to support the Palestinian
   people by sharing my story and shedding light on the powerful,
   insidious nature of right-wing imperialist propaganda.
   “

   I cannot separate myself from their struggle, so I must dedicate myself
--
   It is so easy to fall into carefully set traps and use our power to
   harm and silence others. We must, therefore, remain challengeable and
   willing to challenge others. If our friends and family start
   internalizing and repeating the propaganda of oppressors, we must
   address it and offer education. In turn, we must also surround
   ourselves with trusted people who will do the same for us.

--
   dug out of rubble, young men who were too shy to kiss each other while
   alive and reporters wearing press vests trying to do their jobs. They
   are not terrorists, and they do not deserve the horror Israel has
   brought upon them. We must all resist the propaganda that would
   convince us otherwise.

   TDP has since merged with Hillel International and is now a part of the
--
   I sincerely hope there are hard conversations happening on campus and
   actions being taken in ways that I have not seen yet. I love the
   Vanderbilt community too much to let it fall into the pits of
   propaganda that I used to spread.
   1
   22
     * Israel-Hamas War
--
   Palestines right to defend itself and Hamas committing a heinous act of
   violence and war are two separate things. What occurred oct 7th was not
   defense. it was a full scale attack. if we are going to talk about
   propaganda, maybe saying hamas is a defense organization would be part
   of that.
   0
   Reply
