   IN-DEPTH / IN-DEPTH
   GT investigates: Unveiling propaganda campaign by Philippines, Western
   media to defame China, stir up trouble in South China Sea
   By GT staff reporters Published: Nov 20, 2023 10:57 AM Updated: Nov 19,
   2023 09:24 PM
--
   dangerous harassment" are a few of the high-frequency keywords that
   have emerged in recent reports by major Philippine media outlets
   regarding China's justified actions in the South China Sea, an
   indication of an intensifying false propaganda offensive by the
   Philippines.
   The Philippine government has extensively laid the groundwork to aid in
   swaying public opinion, including creating conflicts in disputed waters
   through the use of various "props" and launching strong premeditated
   counterattacks.
   The most iconic bit of fake news material from the Philippine
   propaganda campaign in the South China Sea comes from their "grounded"
   vessel at Ren'ai Jiao. Ren'ai Jiao is part of China's Nansha Island.
   However, the Philippines has "grounded" a military vessel at Ren'ai
   Jiao and attempted to repair and reinforce it in an attempt to
--
   intercepted by the China Coast Guard (CCG). Surprisingly, they then
   approached the CCG patrol ship, resulting in two consecutive collisions
   between the two vessels.
   Following this incident, the Philippines began a series of propaganda
   attacks. The Philippine Presidential Communications Office publicly
   stated on Facebook that Philippine President Ferdinand Romualdez Marcos
   had convened a special command conference of the national security and
--
   claims that the CCG were driving away Filipino fishermen, and recent
   demands to dismantle the floating barriers placed by China, the
   Philippine authorities and local media outlets have continuously
   escalated their propaganda, gradually forming a mature set of arguments
   by utilizing sporadic public opinion attacks, Peng Nian, a scholar at
   China's National Institute for South China Sea Studies, told the Global
   Times.
--
   These recent disputes are actually part of a series of actions taken by
   the Philippines against China's stance on the South China Sea issue.
   These include providing supplies to grounded vessels, inviting foreign
   media outlets to report on the propaganda, and conducting joint patrols
   with the US, Dai Fan, director of the Center for Philippine Studies at
   Jinan University, told the Global Times.
   "The Philippine government aims to establish an image of China bullying
--
   well as undermines the continuity and strengthening of China's
   strategic mutual trust with the ASEAN. At the same time, once fake news
   stirs up nationalist sentiments within the Philippines, it will also be
   Such propaganda theatrics are likely to continue between the
   Philippines and some Western media, but we hope that the Philippines
   will reconsider its stance and exercise restraint, making a genuine
   choice to promote a peaceful resolution to the South China Sea issue,
