   War in Ukraine

Russian disinformation, propaganda ramp up as conflict in Ukraine grows

   Disinformation experts say they have already seen a concerted effort to
   push a false narrative around the reasons for invading Ukraine — and
   that more is on the way.
--
   By Jason Abbruzzese

   Russia’s effort to spread disinformation and propaganda across the
   internet and through foreign and domestic media about its invasion of
   Ukraine started weeks ago — and it’s expected to ramp up now that the
   conflict has begun.

   Disinformation experts say that they have seen a concerted effort from
   Russian leaders and state-backed media to push a false narrative around
   the reasons for invading Ukraine, and that they expect that to continue
--

   Lytvynenko said people should be prepared for a wide variety of
   disinformation and propaganda, including the use of authentic images
   and video to push false narratives.

   “We know that propaganda is a part of every war, and we know that after
   every attack we see a flood of propaganda,” she said. “This propaganda
   can take many forms. It can try to take videos out of context and claim
   for them to be something else. It can show Russian attacks as more
--
   Videos and images have already begun to pour out of Ukraine, many
   showing destroyed military vehicles and explosions. And during a
   conflict, disinformation and propaganda can also be a tool used by all
   sides. Some media that is circulating has been found to be recycled
   from other conflicts, including one post from a verified Ukrainian
--
   mixed up or the description misinterprets what’s going on."

   Disinformation often conjures memories of the 2016 U.S. presidential
   election, when Russian bots pushed misleading and politically divisive
   claims on social media. But that will not necessarily be the playbook
   for the conflict with Ukraine, according to Ben Strickland, director of
   investigations at the Centre for Information Resilience, a nonprofit
   organization based in London that actively monitors disinformation
   campaigns.

   Strickland said he’s seen a shift in recent days away from Russian
   propaganda that sought to blame Western democracies and NATO for
   causing tensions and toward justifying an invasion of Ukraine. That has
   included disinformation and false accusations about fascists and
   neo-Nazis in Ukraine.

--
   IFRAME: //iframe.nbcnews.com/HVz4d8n?_showcaption=true&app=1

   Strickland said that most of the disinformation his organization has
   tracked has not been pushed by the kinds of bot-driven social media
   operations that many think of in relation to Russian propaganda
   campaigns, but has instead been mostly focused on disseminating
   information on so-called false flag attacks (fake events meant to
--
   terrorists,’” he said.

   Stickland noted that these kinds of disinformation efforts are
   primarily meant to shore up support for military conflict within
   Russia, pointing specifically to the state-backed media outlet RT.
