   Communications minister Michelle Rowland wants Acma to have ‘new
   information-gathering and record-keeping powers’ to monitor digital
   platforms efforts to fight disinformation. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP
   Communications minister Michelle Rowland wants Acma to have ‘new
   information-gathering and record-keeping powers’ to monitor digital
   platforms efforts to fight disinformation. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP
   Australian politics
   Explainer

Why is Labor’s bill on combatting disinformation so controversial?

   Coalition is ringing alarm bells about legislation, despite it
--
     *

   It’s been designed to combat misinformation and disinformation on
   digital platforms, but the Combatting Misinformation and Disinformation
   bill exposure draft has unleashed a flurry of controversy, and its fair
   share of misinformation.
--
   given new information-gathering and record-keeping powers to create
   transparency around efforts by digital platforms to respond to
   misinformation and disinformation on their services, while balancing
   the right to freedom of expression so fundamental to democracy.”
   ‘Trumpian era’ of disinformation makes voice yes campaign job more
   difficult, Megan Davis says
   Read more
--
   enforceable industry code if the platform’s self-regulation measures
   “prove insufficient in addressing the threat posed by misinformation
   and disinformation”.

   Importantly, the bill does not give Acma any “take down” powers. It
--
   “digital platforms code to address the risk of deliberately misleading
   and harmful news” including “appropriate responses” to address
   disinformation and “mal-information”.

   A voluntary code of conduct was drawn up by some of the major platforms
--
   keeping an eye on how the platforms upheld the code. That same year,
   the watchdog reported to the Morrison government its concerns over the
   rise of disinformation and misinformation online and recommended
   beefing up the code.
   (BUTTON) Dreyfus says Dutton ‘leader of the misinformation campaign’ on
--

   Those concerns are largely centred around what they say are the broad
   definitions of disinformation and misinformation in the bill.

   Content could be considered misinformation if it’s “false, misleading
   or deceptive” and the provision of the content “is reasonably likely to
   cause or contribute to serious harm”. Disinformation includes a similar
   definition but with the added clause of addressing whether the person
   [or foreign power] “disseminating, or causing the dissemination of, the
--

   We don’t know what the final definitions of “misinformation” or
   “disinformation” will be.

   The University of Technology Sydney submitted to the inquiry that it
--

   It proposed “limiting Acma’s information gathering powers to ‘measures
   implemented to prevent or respond’ to mis- and disinformation … thereby
   removing any possibility that Acma could indirectly influence decisions
   on which forms of content comprise mis- and disinformation”.

Is it the end of the world?
--

   The Coalition’s 2022 election platform included a promise to create
   “stronger laws to combat harmful disinformation and misinformation
   online by giving the media regulator stronger information-gathering and
   enforcement powers”. It now calls the legislation seeking to do that an
