   This article is more than 1 month old

EU warns Elon Musk after Twitter found to have highest rate of disinformation

   This article is more than 1 month old
--
   The EU has issued a warning to Elon Musk to comply with sweeping new
   laws on fake news and Russian propaganda, after X – formerly known as
   Twitter – was found to have the highest ratio of disinformation posts
   of all large social media platforms.

   The report analysed the ratio of disinformation for a new report laying
   bare for the first time the scale of fake news on social media across
   the EU, with millions of fake accounts removed by TikTok and LinkedIn.
--
   “Mr Musk knows he is not off the hook by leaving the code of practice,”
   said the European commissioner Věra Jourová, who is responsible for the
   implementation of the new anti-disinformation code.

   “There are obligations under the hard law. So my message for Twitter/X
--

   “X, formerly Twitter … is the platform with the largest ratio of
   mis/disinformation followed by Facebook,” she told reporters.

   The 200-page report is an account of the work the large platforms have
--
   new law and lifts the lid on the behind-the-scenes efforts made by
   Facebook and others to crack down on Russian propaganda, hate speech
   and other disinformation.

   “The Russian state has engaged in the war of ideas to pollute our
--
   It reported that 37% of users also cancelled sharing when notified of
   fake news, a sign the EU says of the value consumers put on labelling
   disinformation.

   The EU is particularly concerned about continued Russian propaganda in
--

   Jourová said the report was evidence that Russia was engaged in a “war
   of ideas” and that Kremlin disinformation was still very prevalent
   across the large platforms.
   What makes Elon Musk tick? I spent months following the same people as
--
   She said one of her main messages to the large platforms was to be
   aware of elections, including those for the European parliament next
   year, and the “risk of disinformation”.

   She said the Kremlin propaganda was “a multimillion-euro weapon of mass
--
   communities and the climate crisis.

   “I think it is one of the advantages of disinformation, is that they
   are so predictable,” said Jourová, making it easier for factcheckers to
   find.

   On Twitter, she said “disinformation actors were found to have
   significantly more followers than their non-disinformation counterparts
   and tend to have joined the platform more recently than
   non-disinformation users”.
   Explore more on these topics
     * X
--
     *

X criticised for enabling spread of Israel-Hamas disinformation
       9 Oct 2023
     *
