   War in Ukraine

Russian propaganda efforts aided by pro-Kremlin content creators, research
finds

--
   A small network of pro-Kremlin content creators have seen their
   audiences grow dramatically in recent months while spreading
   disinformation about the war in Ukraine, evading social media
   platforms’ efforts to curb Russian propaganda and paving a path to
   Western audiences, according to research published Wednesday.

--
   English, French, German and other languages — have proved effective at
   circumnavigating commitments from European governments and U.S.-based
   social media platforms to stop the spread of Russian propaganda.

   Soon after Russia invaded Ukraine in February, many tech platforms took
--
   state-controlled media outlets from advertising. Twitter, Facebook and
   YouTube apply labels and links to fact checks on content that violates
   their policies against disinformation about the war.

   Most of these efforts focused on official Russian government and state
   media accounts. That plan, while partially effective, misses a major
   vector of Kremlin disinformation, according to the Institute for
   Strategic Dialogue, a London-based think tank that produced the
   research.
--
   director of digital analysis. “It misses a large volume of content
   coming from actors who can reach huge audiences very quickly and spread
   pro-Kremlin disinformation without the state actually having to be
   directly involved.”

   Content creators and social media influencers have emerged in the past
   year as one of the newer avenues for disinformation. Some YouTubers
   exposed a plot to use creators to spread Covid disinformation, while
   The Associated Press reported in March that China’s government had
   found success with its own network of English-language creators.
--

   Smith said the creators have proven particularly difficult to moderate
   and a powerful tool for spreading propaganda.

   “Some of the disinformation that we see spread quickly isn’t being
   fact-checked because they’re reaching an audience that is deemed to be
   smaller or less important than that reached by RT and Sputnik, but the
--
   within the bounds of the policies of the platforms. And sometimes, that
   spills over into incitement of violence, denying war crimes and
   spreading very blatant pieces of disinformation about the context of
   what’s happening and about how people are being victimized.”
   Brandy Zadrozny
