   Disinfo black opsTechnology
   This article is more than 9 months old

Revealed: the hacking and disinformation team meddling in elections

   This article is more than 9 months old
       media profiles
--

   A team of Israeli contractors who claim to have manipulated more than
   30 elections around the world using hacking, sabotage and automated
   disinformation on social media has been exposed in a new investigation.

   The unit is run by Tal Hanan, a 50-year-old former Israeli special
   forces operative who now works privately using the pseudonym “Jorge”,
--
   activities and methods but said: “I deny any wrongdoing.”
   distort reality – video
   00:05:19
   'Team Jorge' unmasked: the secret disinformation team who distort
   reality – video

   The investigation reveals extraordinary details about how
   disinformation is being weaponised by Team Jorge, which runs a private
   service offering to covertly meddle in elections without a trace. The
   group also works for corporate clients.

--

   The consortium of journalists that investigated Team Jorge includes
   reporters from 30 outlets including Le Monde, Der Spiegel and El País.
   The project, part of a wider investigation into the disinformation
   industry, has been coordinated by Forbidden Stories, a French nonprofit
   whose mission is to pursue the work of assassinated, threatened or
   jailed reporters.
--
   Show

   The Guardian and Observer have partnered with an international
   consortium of reporters to investigate global disinformation. Our
   project, Disinfo black ops, is exposing how false information is
   deliberately spread by powerful states and private operatives who sell
   their covert services to political campaigns, companies and wealthy
--
   Bengaluru home in 2017. Hours before she was murdered, Lankesh had been
   putting the finishing touches on an article called In the Age of False
   News, which examined how so-called lie factories online were spreading
   disinformation in India. In the final line of the article, which was
   published after her death, Lankesh wrote: “I want to salute all those
   who expose fake news. I wish there were more of them.”

--
   The methods and techniques described by Team Jorge raise new challenges
   for big tech platforms, which have for years struggled to prevent
   nefarious actors spreading falsehoods or breaching the security on
   their platforms. Evidence of a global private market in disinformation
   aimed at elections will also ring alarm bells for democracies around
   the world.
   Tal Hanan.
--
   has come under growing diplomatic pressure in recent years over its
   export of cyber-weaponry that undermines democracy and human rights.

   Hanan appears to have run at least some of his disinformation
   operations through an Israeli company, Demoman International, which is
   registered on a website run by the Israeli Ministry of Defense to
   promote defence exports. The Israeli MoD did not respond to requests
--
   Given their expertise in subterfuge, it is perhaps surprising that
   Hanan and his colleagues allowed themselves to be exposed by undercover
   reporters. Journalists using conventional methods have struggled to
   shed light on the disinformation industry, which is at pains to avoid
   detection.

   The secretly filmed meetings, which took place between July and
   December 2022, therefore provide a rare window into the mechanics of
   disinformation for hire.

   Three journalists – from Radio France, Haaretz and TheMarker –
   approached Team Jorge pretending to be consultants working on behalf of
--

   What is this undercover footage?

   Disinformation operatives work under the radar. To find out more about
   'Team Jorge', an Israel-based unit selling hacking and social media
   manipulation services, three journalists went undercover. They posed as
   consultants, working on behalf of a client in a politically unstable
--
   Who did the secret filming?

   It was secretly filmed by three reporters from media outlets working in
   a consortium investigating disinformation: Gur Megiddo (TheMarker),
   Frédéric Métézeau (Radio France) and Omer Benjakob (Haaretz). The video
   was then shared with more than 25 other media outlets in the
   consortium, including the Guardian and Observer. While the Guardian and
--
   is disputed.”

   Team Jorge also sent Nix’s political consultancy a video showcasing an
   early iteration of the social media disinformation software it now
   markets as Aims. Hanan said in an email that the tool, which enabled
   users to create up to 5,000 bots to deliver “mass messages” and
   “propaganda”, had been used in 17 elections.
--
information
       15 Feb 2023

How undercover reporters caught ‘Team Jorge’ disinformation operatives on
camera
       15 Feb 2023

