
   POLITICS

Free speech concerns mount over DHS 'disinformation' board as lawmakers,
critics weigh in

Secretary Mayorkas announced the creation of the 'Disinformation Governance
Board' Wednesday

   Kelly Laco By Kelly Laco Fox News
   Published April 30, 2022 6:03am EDT

   close
   Biden disinformation czar goes viral for TikTok song Video

Biden disinformation czar goes viral for TikTok song

   'Outnumbered' panelists discuss the possible impacts of Biden's new
   disinformation governance board on free speech.

   Federal and state lawmakers, constitutional scholars and other experts
   are expressing concerns with the Department of Homeland Security's new
--

   Mayorkas announced during testimony Wednesday before the House
   Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security that DHS had created a
   Disinformation Governance Board to combat online disinformation.

   "The goal is to bring the resources of (DHS) together to address this
   threat," Mayorkas said during the hearing, adding that the department
   is focused on the spread of disinformation in minority communities
   ahead of the 2022 midterm elections.

   REPUBLICANS ACCUSE MAYORKAS OF DISCREDITING 'LEGITIMATE CRITICISM' WITH
--

   Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., was quick to condemn this latest action by the
   Biden administration, promising to introduce legislation to defund the
   new disinformation board.

   "The Federal Government has no business creating a Ministry of Truth.
   The Department of Homeland Security's "Disinformation Board" is
   unconstitutional and unamerican, and I'll be introducing a bill to
   defund it," he tweeted Friday.

--
   Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt wrote a letter to Mayorkas
   Friday that was obtained exclusively by Fox News Digital. In the
   letter, Schmitt states that the focus of the "Orewellian" board to
   focus resources on the threat of "mis/disinformation" should "shock the
   very core of the American belief system, a threat to free speech that
   will rightly alarm freedom-loving people across America, including
   those in my home state of Missouri."

   Brookings Institute Senior Fellow Shadi Hamid said the disinformation
   board is "not exactly a reassuring thought."

   "How is this even up for debate? The government should not be involved
--

   "That the Biden Admin casually announced today that the Dept of
   Homeland Security — a domestic security agency — has created a
   ‘disinformation’ board is indescribably dystopian and chilling,"
   Independent journalist Glenn Greenwald tweeted Thursday. "That
   Democrats think this is good and normal tells you all you need to know
   about them."
--
   CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

   The White House defended the DHS board Thursday, saying its objective
   is to prevent disinformation in a "range" of communities.

   "It sounds like the objective of the board is to prevent disinformation
   and misinformation from traveling around the country in a range of
   communities," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said in response to
   Republican criticism of the board during a daily press briefing. "I'm
