
   Today’s Paper

   Politics|Ruling Puts Social Media at Crossroads of Disinformation and
   Free Speech
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/05/us/politics/social-media-ruling-gove
   rnment.html
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Ruling Puts Social Media at Crossroads of Disinformation and Free Speech

   The case, which could alter how the government battles disinformation,
   is a flashpoint in a broader effort by conservatives to document what
   they contend is a liberal conspiracy to silence their views.

--
   “weekly sync” meetings with Facebook, once emailing the company 16
   “misinformation” posts. And in the summer of 2021, the surgeon
   general’s top aide repeatedly urged Google, Facebook and Twitter to do
   more to combat disinformation.

   The examples are among dozens of interactions described in a 155-page
   ruling by a federal judge in Louisiana, who on Tuesday imposed
--
   After Vivek Murthy, the surgeon general, urged social media companies
   to “take action against misinformation superspreaders” in July 2021,
   the companies took down information posted by 17 accounts linked to the
   “Disinformation Dozen,” a group of people who frequently distributed
   false anti-vaccination claims.

   Image
--

   “The public and private pressure from the White House apparently had
   its intended effect,” the judge wrote. “All 12 members of the
   ‘Disinformation Dozen’ were censored, and pages, groups and accounts
   linked to the Disinformation Dozen were removed.”

   He also described regular meetings between the companies and the
   F.B.I.’s San Francisco field office, where he wrote that as many as
--
   platforms to remove information about the story.

   “The F.B.I. additionally likely misled social media companies into
   believing the Hunter Biden laptop story was Russian disinformation,
   which resulted in suppression of the story a few weeks prior to the
   2020 presidential election,” the judge wrote in his order.

--
   David McCabe covers tech policy. He joined The Times from Axios in
   2019. More about David McCabe
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 1 of
   the New York edition with the headline: Disinformation Vs. Free Speech:
   A New Frontier. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
   1119

