
   Today’s Paper

   Media|Disinformation Researchers Fret About Fallout From Judge’s Order
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/05/business/media/disinformation-resear
   chers-judge-restrictions.html

   Advertisement
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Disinformation Researchers Fret About Fallout From Judge’s Order

   They said a restriction on government interaction with social media
   companies could impede efforts to curb false claims about vaccines and
--
   a lectern on a stage.
   A federal judge’s decision specifically named some research
   organizations, including the Stanford Internet Observatory. Former
   President Barack Obama spoke about disinformation at Stanford last
   year.Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times
   Tiffany Hsu Stuart A. Thompson

--
   A federal judge’s decision this week to restrict the government’s
   communication with social media platforms could have broad side
   effects, according to researchers and groups that combat hate speech,
   online abuse and disinformation: It could further hamper efforts to
   curb harmful content.

   Alice E. Marwick, a researcher at the University of North Carolina at
   Chapel Hill, was one of several disinformation experts who said on
   Wednesday that the ruling could impede work meant to keep false claims
   about vaccines and voter fraud from spreading.

   The order, she said, followed other efforts, largely from Republicans,
   that are “part of an organized campaign pushing back on the idea of
   disinformation as a whole.”

   Judge Terry A. Doughty granted a preliminary injunction on Tuesday,
   saying the Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal
--
   remove content. Instead, they said, the government has historically
   notified companies about potentially dangerous messages, like lies
   about election fraud or misleading information about Covid-19. Most
   misinformation or disinformation that violates social platforms’
   policies is flagged by researchers, nonprofits, or people and software
   at the platforms themselves.

--
   tanks.

   Their peers said such stipulations could dissuade younger scholars from
   pursuing disinformation research and intimidate donors who fund crucial
   grants.

   Bond Benton, an associate communication professor at Montclair State
   University who studies disinformation, described the ruling as “a bit
   of a potential Trojan horse.” It is limited on paper to the
   government’s relationship with social media platforms, he said, but
   carried a message that misinformation qualifies as speech and its
--
   In recent years, platforms have relied more heavily on automated tools
   and algorithms to spot harmful content, limiting the effectiveness of
   complaints from people outside the companies. Academics and
   anti-disinformation organizations often complained that platforms were
   unresponsive to their concerns, said Viktorya Vilk, the director for
   digital safety and free expression at PEN America, a nonprofit that
   supports free expression.
--
   individual cases,” she said. “They are less comfortable ignoring the
   government.”

   Several disinformation researchers worried that the ruling could give
   cover for social media platforms, some of which have already scaled
   back their efforts to curb misinformation, to be even less vigilant
   before the 2024 election. They said it was unclear how relatively new
--
   need to update rules governing social media platforms’ liability. The
   ruling on Tuesday cited the center as having delivered a presentation
   to the surgeon general’s office about its 2021 report on online
   anti-vaccine activists, “The Disinformation Dozen.”

   “It’s bananas that you can’t show a nipple on the Super Bowl but
   Facebook can still broadcast Nazi propaganda, empower stalkers and
--
   United States,” Mr. Ahmed said. “This court decision further
   exacerbates that feeling of impunity social media companies operate
   under, despite the fact that they are the primary vector for hate and
   disinformation in society.”

   Tiffany Hsu is a tech reporter covering misinformation and
   disinformation. More about Tiffany Hsu

   Stuart A. Thompson is a reporter on the Technology desk covering online
   information flows. More about Stuart A. Thompson
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 14 of
   the New York edition with the headline: Disinformation Researchers Fret
   About Fallout From Judge’s Order. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper |
   Subscribe

