
   America's Diverse Vote

2020 election disinformation targeted voters of color and 2024 will be worse,
groups say

   Community organizations are preparing for what they expect to be a
   worsening onslaught of disinformation targeting communities of color
   and immigrant communities.
   Early Voters Continues Heading To Polls In Florida
   Voters wait in line to cast their early ballots on Oct. 28, 2020 in
--
   communities of color.

   As the 2024 election approaches, community organizations are preparing
   for what they expect to be a worsening onslaught of disinformation
   targeting communities of color and immigrant communities. They say the
   tailored campaigns challenge assumptions of what kinds of voters are
   susceptible to election conspiracies and distrust in voting systems.
--
   A growing subset of communities of color, especially immigrants for
   whom English is not their first language, are questioning the integrity
   of U.S. voting processes and subscribing to Trump’s lies of a stolen
   2020 election, said Jenny Liu, mis/disinformation policy manager at the
   nonprofit Asian Americans Advancing Justice. Still, she said these
   communities are largely left out of conversations about misinformation.

--
   think of someone who’s older, maybe from a rural area, maybe a white
   man,” she said. “You don’t think of Chinese Americans scrolling through
   WeChat. That’s why this narrative glosses over and erases a lot of the
   disinformation harms that many communities of colors face.”

Tailoring disinformation

   In addition to general misinformation themes about voting machines and
   mail-in voting, groups are catering their messaging to communities of
--
   preexisting distrust of elections and authority that may make them
   vulnerable to misinformation as well, Trauthig said.

   Disinformation efforts often hinge on topics most important to each
   community, whether that is public safety, immigration, abortion,
   education, inflation or alleged extramarital affairs, said Laura
   Zommer, co-founder of the Spanish-language fact-checking group
--
   work from Buenos Aires, Argentina, on the night of the 2022 U.S.
   Midterm elections.Laura Zommer / AP

How disinformation spreads

   Disinformation, often in languages like Spanish, Mandarin or Hindi,
   flows onto social media apps like WhatsApp and WeChat heavily used by
   communities of color.

--
   spaces” found on messaging apps or groups on social media sites like
   Facebook, Trauthig said.

   “But disinformation also targets them on these platforms, even though
   it may feel to them to be that safer space,” she said.

   Messages on WhatsApp are also encrypted and can’t be easily seen or
--
   “As a result, messages on apps like WhatsApp often fly under the radar
   and are allowed to spread and spread, largely unchecked,” said Randy
   Abreu, policy counsel for the National Hispanic Media Coalition, which
   leads the Spanish Language Disinformation Coalition.

   Abreu also raised concerns about Spanish YouTube channels and radio
   shows that are growing in popularity. He said the coalition is tracking
--
   elections. Many of these videos remained on the platform, despite
   violating YouTube election misinformation policy, the report said.

Disinformation — and disenfranchisement

   Amid changes in voting policies at state and local levels, advocates
   are sounding the alarm on how disinformation about voting in 2024 may
   target communities of color. Many of these efforts have surged as Asian
   American, Black and Latino communities have grown in political power,
   said María Teresa Kumar, founding president of the nonprofit advocacy
   group Voto Latino.

   “Disinformation is, at its core, meant to be a sort of voter
   suppression tactic for communities of color,” she said. “It targets
   communities of color in a way that feeds into their already justifiable
   concerns that the system is stacked against them.”
--

   While many of the same recycled claims around alleged fraud in the 2020
   and 2022 elections are expected to resurface, experts say
   disinformation campaigns will likely be more sophisticated and granular
   in attempts to target specific groups of voters of color.

   Trauthig also raised concerns about how layoffs and instability at
--
   communities of color to help approach trends in misinformation
   narratives, experts said.

   “These are not monolithic groups,” Cruz said. “This disinformation is
   very specifically tailored to each of these communities and their
   fears. So we also need to be partnering with grassroots organizations
   in each of these communities to tailor our approaches. If we don’t take
