

   House judiciary committee chair Jim Jordan has issued a dozens of
   subpoenas to universities researching disinformation.
   The House judiciary committee chair, Jim Jordan, has issued a dozens of
   subpoenas to universities researching disinformation. Photograph: José
   Luis Magaña/AP
   The House judiciary committee chair, Jim Jordan, has issued a dozens of
   subpoenas to universities researching disinformation. Photograph: José
   Luis Magaña/AP
   The far right

‘A deranged ploy’: how Republicans are fueling the disinformation wars

   Several actions by the far right in the last month could result in a
   flood of conspiracy theories before the 2024 election
--
   conservative voices. It is also the latest in a wider rightwing
   campaign to weaken attempts at stopping false information and
   conspiracy theories from proliferating online, one that has included
   framing disinformation researchers and their efforts as part of a
   wide-reaching censorship regime.
   The Age of Insurrection review: how the far right rose – and found
   Trump
--
   Republican attorneys general in Missouri and Louisiana have sued Biden
   administration officials, the GOP-controlled House judiciary committee
   has demanded extensive documents from researchers studying
   disinformation, and rightwing media has attacked academics and
   officials who monitor social media platforms. Many of the researchers
   involved have faced significant harassment, leading to fears of a
   chilling effect on speaking out against disinformation ahead of the
   2024 presidential election.

   The Republican pushback against anti-disinformation campaigns has
   existed for years, alleging that content moderation on major platforms
   has unfairly targeted conservative voices. Many tech platforms have
   instituted policies against misinformation or hateful speech that have
--
   The rightwing narrative of tech platform censorship persisted, however,
   intensifying as companies prohibited medical misinformation about
   Covid-19. It gained additional momentum last year after the Department
   of Homeland Security rolled out a disinformation governance board aimed
   at researching ways to stop malicious online influence campaigns and
   harmful misinformation. Republican politicians and rightwing media
   immediately seized on the board as proof of a leftist authoritarian
--
   pornography made of her and seeing her personal information released
   online against her will.

   The disinformation governance board suspended its operations only a
   month after its debut, in what Jankowicz told the Guardian earlier this
   week was the start of a larger rightwing campaign aimed at rolling back
   checks on disinformation. “They got a win in shutting us down, so why
   would they stop there?” said Jankowicz, who was originally named in the
   Louisiana lawsuit but removed on account of no longer being a
   government official.
--
   the federal government”. The House judiciary committee chair, Jim
   Jordan, earlier this year issued a wide-ranging request for information
   and documents to multiple universities with programs aimed at
   researching disinformation, and has so far sent dozens of subpoenas.

   Among the institutions and officials that Jordan requested emails and
   documents from were the Stanford Internet Observatory, the University
--
   Americans view it as a partisan attempt to score political points. But
   it has nonetheless put pressure on academic institutions and emboldened
   attacks against researchers, including the University of Washington
   disinformation expert Kate Starbird, who told the Washington Post that
   she has faced political intimidation and cut back on public engagement.

   Starbird and other researchers are directly named in the Louisiana
   lawsuit for their role as advisers to a now-disbanded Cybersecurity and
   Infrastructure Security Agency subcommittee on disinformation.
   Starbird, who did not return a request for comment, has previously
   stated that the Republican-led lawsuit egregiously misrepresents her
   work.
--
   Legal experts questioned Doughty’s injunction against the Biden
   administration this week, the Associated Press reported, saying that
   the wide scope of the ruling meant that public health officials could
   be prevented from sharing their expertise. Meanwhile, disinformation
   researchers have stated that Republican efforts to push back against
   content moderation and safeguards against misinformation threaten to
   open the floodgates for conspiracy theories and falsehoods ahead of the
   2024 presidential election.

   Amid the rightwing campaign against content moderation and
   disinformation researchers, numerous social media platforms have also
   been peeling back restrictions. Twitter under Elon Musk, who last year
   engineered the release of some internal communications between Twitter
   and government officials, has hollowed out its content moderation
