   Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson

   “To say they [Chinese press outlets and social media users] ‘made up or
   spread disinformation’ is completely unfounded. If anyone was ‘making
   up or spreading disinformation’, it would be The New York Times, not
   them.”
   Source: Chinese Foreign Ministry Press Conference September 18, 2023
   False
--
   claiming the United States military started the fires in a weather
   weapon experiment.

   A large network of pro-China influencers was behind that disinformation
   campaign, The New York Times reported on September 11, citing reports
   by five different organizations.

--
   spokesperson Mao Ning claiming on September 18:

   “To say they [Chinese press outlets and social media users] ‘made up or
   spread disinformation’ is completely unfounded. If anyone was ‘making
   up or spreading disinformation’, it would be The New York Times, not
   them.”

   That is false.
--

   The researchers found that pro-China influencers, falsely citing the
   United Kingdom’s MI6 foreign intelligence service, orchestrated a
   disinformation campaign claiming the U.S. government started the Maui
   fires in a weather weapons experiment.

   One report, published by NewsGuard on September 11, shows that in
--
   addition to Chinese. The accounts also reposted and interacted with one
   another, ballooning the network‘s outreach.
   NewsGuard concluded there is “strong evidence” that Chinese speakers
   were behind the disinformation campaign, and that the first Chinese
   post spreading the claim was published at least two days before the
   first posts in other languages. Many of the accounts involved in the
   campaign only post narratives aligned with those of the Chinese
--
   respond adequately to flooding that brought death and destruction to
   areas surrounding the capital Beijing.

   This is not the first time China has orchestrated a disinformation
   campaign for political gain. Earlier in September, Polygraph.info
   identified a propaganda campaign involving pro-Beijing influencers on
   X, claiming the U.S. blockade against China’s tech giant Huawei had
--
Polygraph.info
       Polygraph.info is a fact-checking website produced by Voice of
       America (VOA). ​The website serves as a resource for verifying the
       increasing volume of disinformation and misinformation being
       distributed and shared globally.
       FOLLOW Subscribe

