
   Fox News

   Expand / Collapse search
   Login
   Watch TV
   Menu


U.S.


World


Opinion

Politics


Entertainment


Business


Lifestyle


Science


Tech


Health


TV


About


Other


   Fox News

   This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or
   redistributed. ©2023 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes
   displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data
   provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital
   Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
   Refinitiv Lipper.

   Media

Barack Obama lectures about 'widespread disinformation' on World Press
Freedom Day: 'Truth matters'

The Obama administration spied on journalists and seized their records

   By Lindsay Kornick Fox News
   Published May 3, 2023 9:39pm EDT

   close
   Barack Obama praises journalists in the fight for democracy Video

Barack Obama praises journalists in the fight for democracy

   Former President Barack Obama spoke in a video about the importance of
   journalism against threats towards democracy in celebration of World
   Press Freedom Day.

   On World Press Freedom Day Wednesday, a video was posted on Twitter of
   former President Barack Obama lecturing about "widespread
   disinformation" and the need for journalists to create "an information
   environment" to support democracy.

   Obama had previously recorded the video for a conference on democracy
   held by the Columbia Journalism School in late April. In the clip, he
   touted the importance of journalism in the struggle for democracy and
   ways to combat disinformation and promote journalistic efforts to
   defend the truth.

   In sharing the video on Twitter, the Obama Foundation wrote, "This
   World Press Freedom Day, take a look at @BarackObama's remarks at the
   @ColumbiaJourn Faultlines: Democracy conference, and why the free press
   is vital for democracy to survive and thrive."
   Barack Obama on journalism

   Former President Barack Obama spoke about the importance of journalism
   in democracy. (Twitter)

   MEDIA FIGURES ADDRESS THE INDUSTRY’S FLAWS AT CHICAGO CONFERENCE: THERE
   IS ‘A PERCEPTION OF CONDESCENSION’

   Obama's personal account retweeted the Foundation, saying, "Journalists
   have always been on the front lines of the struggle for democracy.
   That’s why we need to keep standing up for the rights of journalists
   around the world. Grateful that we have @ColumbiaJourn and people like
   Jelani Cobb taking on this important work."

   "Journalists have always been on the frontlines of struggles for
   democracy, and some of you have the scars to prove it. And that’s why
   it’s so important to find creative ways to reinvigorate quality
   journalism. It’s why we need to keep standing up for the rights of
   journalists around the world, many of whom are facing increasing
   threats and challenges just trying to do their jobs," Obama said in the
   video.

   The former president continued, "I plan to keep shining a light on the
   biggest challenges that democracy faces, that includes revitalizing our
   political institutions, coming up with more inclusive and sustainable
   models of capitalism, creating a stronger democratic culture. But it
   also means creating an information environment that reinforces rather
   than erodes our democracy, one in which truth matters, one in which we
   are able to distinguish between fact and opinion."
   Barack Obama holds his hand up during election event

   Former U.S. President Barack Obama speaks at a Democracy Forum event
   held by the Obama Foundation at the Javits Center on November 17, 2022
   in New York City. (Spencer Platt/Getty Images)

   The former president also espoused the fight for democracy against
   issues such as "inequality," "polarization" and "widespread
   disinformation."

   "I talk a lot about how democracy is neither inevitable nor
   self-executing. Citizens like us have to nurture it. We have to tend to
   it and fight for it. As our circumstances change, we have to be willing
   to look at ourselves critically and make reforms that can allow
   democracy not just to survive but to thrive. That’s especially
   important right now," Obama said.

   JOURNALISTS REJECT OBJECTIVELY AS AN ‘OUTMODED,’ ‘FAILED CONCEPT:’
   ‘WORLD VIEW OF MIDDLE-AGED WHITE MEN’

   He added, "Our democracy has always faced its share of challenges, but
   increasingly it feels like we’re at an inflection point. Rising
   inequality, deepening polarization and widespread disinformation. At
   the same time, we’re also trying to adapt to advancements in technology
   like AI that can profoundly change our world. If we want to preserve
   need all of you to help us do it."
   Barack Obama

   The Obama administration was involved in several seizures of
   journalists' records and prosecutions of government sources. (The
   Associated Press)

   Though Obama praised journalists for their impact on democracy, his
   administration was criticized for an "unprecedented" number of
   prosecutions of government sources as well as seizures of journalists'
   records.

   "In the Obama administration's Washington, government officials are
   increasingly afraid to talk to the press," former Washington Post
   executive editor Leonard Downie Jr. wrote in a 2015 report on U.S.
   press freedoms under the Obama administration. "The administration's
   war on leaks and other efforts to control information are the most
   aggressive I've seen since the Nixon administration, when I was one of
   the editors involved in The Washington Post's investigation of
   Watergate."

   CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

   Despite his history, Obama encouraged journalists in the video to help
   save democracy.

   "So, what you do next, the imagination, the innovation, the
   determination that you’re able to apply in your jobs is going to help
   determine the fate of our democracy, whether democracy gets stronger or
   whether it gets weaker, whether people become more divided or can come
   together to solve some of our biggest problems," Obama said.

   Lindsay Kornick is an associate editor for Fox News Digital. Story tips
   can be sent to lindsay.kornick@fox.com and on Twitter: @lmkornick.
   Fox News First

   Get all the stories you need-to-know from the most powerful name in
   news delivered first thing every morning to your inbox
   Arrives Weekdays
   Subscribe

   Subscribed
   Subscribe

   You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

U.S.


World


Opinion

Politics


Entertainment


Business


Lifestyle


Science


Tech


Health


TV


About


Other



   Fox News

   This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or
   redistributed. ©2023 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes
   displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data
   provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital
   Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
   Refinitiv Lipper.
