   #alternate alternate alternate The Hollywood Reporter Feed The
   Hollywood Reporter » News Feed The Hollywood Reporter » Politics News
   Feed


   ×


   Skip to main content

   Got a tip?
   The Hollywood Reporter homepage
   Newsletters
   Subscribe

The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News

   Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter
   See My Options Sign Up

site categories


   The Hollywood Reporter homepage

   Read Next:

Former Home of Paul Newman and Joanne Woodward For Sale in Beverly Hills for
$8M (Exclusive)

   Subscribe

The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News

   Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter
   See My Options Sign Up


“Everyone Wants Us to Pick a Side”: Reporters Grapple With Covering
Israel-Hamas War

   An inside look at how correspondents are juggling online harassment
   even as they dodge the dangers of real-time reporting in the escalating
   conflict.

   By Brian Stelter
   Plus Icon

Brian Stelter

More Stories by Brian

   View All
   October 25, 2023 6:45am

   Israel-Hamas War
   Illustration by Lincoln Agnew

   Clarissa Ward was about to begin a top-of-the-hour CNN live shot in
   Sderot, Israel, when a Red Alert siren started to blare. The alert is
   “telling us to find shelter,” Ward said, as her crew hurried toward a
   bomb shelter. They didn’t make it in time. As Hamas rockets whizzed
   in the sky, Ward and her colleagues ducked in a ditch. The
   pulse-pounding scene showed that, as Ward said on air, “even with the
   most sophisticated military technology, the Israelis are still up
   against a really tough fight.”

   The world’s biggest news outlets, now in 24/7 war coverage mode, are up
   against a parallel fight against disinformation and defamation.
   Reporters say they have never seen it this bad. Ward’s compelling
   Oct. 9 live shot, which should have been a point of pride, prompted
   weeks of pain. Videos of her report were met with hateful comments
   calling her an actress. “She deserves an Oscar.” “Next time write a
   better script.” Then a click-hungry YouTube creator added an audio
   track of a faux director giving Ward stage instructions, and the
   fabricated video went viral on apps like Telegram and Elon Musk’s X,
   with titles like “CNN Busted FAKING Attack in Israel.” Musk reacted
   with a laughing-crying emoji, delighting his fans, and prodding one
   lone editor at Condé Nast to reply and say what I felt: “None of this
   is funny,” legal affairs editor Luke Zaleski wrote. “It’s tragic. X is
   a high-speed information-blender puréeing facts and news and minds into
   mush during major world events. And the effect is massive confusion
   with potentially disastrous results.”

Related Stories

   Former Governor of New Jersey Chris Christie, former Governor from
   South Carolina and UN ambassador Nikki Haley, Florida Governor Ron
   DeSantis and entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy participate in the fourth
   Republican presidential primary debate at the University of Alabama in
   Tuscaloosa, Alabama, on December 6, 2023.
   TV

CNN Plans Two More Republican Presidential Race Debates

   Fox News foreign correspondent. Trey Yingst.
   News

A TV News Reporter on Israel-Hamas Fog of War, Truth and Combating
Conspiracies (Guest Column)

   The past two weeks have proven Zaleski right. Confusion is the
   unfortunate byproduct of the collision between social networks and
   newsrooms. CNN publicists urged people to watch Ward’s real report “for
   themselves on a trusted platform” — meaning, not Musk’s X — and the
   meme-maker said he wasn’t trying to deceive anyone, but Ward, the
   network’s chief international correspondent, was deluged by trolls
   anyway. “My reporting has been spliced and diced, twisted and faked,”
   Ward wrote on an Instagram Story post for friends. She later turned off
   comments altogether because, she wrote, there were “one too many
   threats to kill my children and I just don’t think it helps anyone.
   Really desperate to keep the focus on the immense suffering and
   bloodshed” and the need for aid in Gaza.

   That’s how other correspondents feel, as well. “This is the absolute
   most emotionally charged story to cover,” one exasperated reporter said
   in a late night conversation. “Everyone wants us to pick a side,”
   another said. “No,” a third reporter chimed in, “everyone already
   thinks we’re on a side. They don’t believe that impartial news is
   possible.”

   In conversations with two dozen staffers at outlets like The New York
   Times, ABC and Al Jazeera, some of whom are working in the war zone, I
   heard about four overwhelming and overlapping challenges: dangerous
   conditions, factual disputes, distortions and disinformation.

   Physical dangers are paramount: Press freedom groups say that two dozen
   members of the media have died amid the fighting, mostly Palestinians.
   Mohammed Mhawish, a journalist in Gaza City, told me he harbors no
   illusions that his flak jacket labeled PRESS will provide any real
   protection from Israeli air strikes. Several of the Gazan producers who
   work for Western networks are actively trying to evacuate their
   families. At the same time, as a correspondent in Israel said, “We’re
   desperate to get into Gaza, but it’s impossible.” Reporters can hear
   blasts in the distance but can’t see the effects for themselves.

   The result: a shortage of facts. When a powerful explosion occurred
   near Al-Ahli Hospital in Gaza City on Oct. 17, and Hamas-aligned
   spokespeople immediately blamed an Israeli air strike, many outlets
   blasted out news alerts before it was possible to have any independent
   sourcing or reporting. Israeli officials were furious, and so were some
   journalists in the offending newsrooms. “We claim to care deeply about
   disinformation, but we’re part of the problem,” one Times staffer said
   to me, a point echoed by several others.

   Information is scarcest when public interest is greatest and the
   inverse is also, sadly, true; by the time The Wall Street Journal, The
   Associated Press and other outlets produced in-depth assessments
   pointing to a misfired rocket from Gaza as the most likely cause of the
   hospital blast, minds were made up. Masthead editors at the Times
   grappled for several days with both external criticism and internal
   concerns about the initial “Israeli Strike Kills Hundreds in Hospital,
   Palestinians Say” headline, which was updated multiple times as new
   information arrived. An editor’s note on Monday said, “Times editors
   should have taken more care with the initial presentation, and been
   more explicit about what information could be verified.” (The cause of
   the hospital blast is still under investigation.)

   To the extent that the Times deserves blame for the early error, it
   also deserves credit for the note of contrition. Factual disputes will
   continue for as long as the war does. “This is a test for executives,”
   international expertise and veteran staffers who have the standing to
   say “Wait” before publishing. (“Wait” may be the single hardest word to
   say in a newsroom, but that’s why it is also the most important.) CNN
   Worldwide chairman and CEO Mark Thompson officially started his new job
   posture; so far, he is receiving high marks from staffers.

   Attention is now turning to long-term planning, which means rotating
   journalists in and out of the region. “We all need to pace ourselves
   and take care of ourselves and each other,” CBS News president Ingrid
   Ciprian-Matthews wrote in a memo, pointing out that “no one is spared
   the pain of watching so much death and destruction — whether in person

   During the 2003 invasion of Iraq, reports from news crews embedded with
   U.S. military units were likened to a “soda-straw” view of war. We’re
   now each holding whole handfuls of straws, yet unable to trust what
   we’re seeing. The number of violent videos from Israel and Gaza is
   almost limitless, capturing every conceivable angle — snuff films from
   the body-worn cameras of Hamas terrorists, silent films from Israeli
   aircraft showing bombs hitting Gaza targets, TikToks from civilians in
   the crossfire, drone videos of the aftermath. Some of the videos are
   deceptive while others, wrongly purporting to be from the war zone, are
   woven into news coverage, so that consumers know what steps are being
   taken to vet information ahead of time. MSNBC showed how to do this by
   booking Eric Carvin, the director of NBC News’ Social Newsgathering
   team, for an explainer segment on Oct. 21.

   Of course, no amount of transparency will appease the critics who are
   certain that the press is their enemy. Ward went viral again last week
   when Egyptian protester Rahma Zein confronted her at the Rafah Crossing
   between Egypt and Gaza. “You own the narrative,” she shouted. “Where
   are our voices?” Ward interviewed her and used Zein’s voice in a CNN
   report, but the thoughtful, edited package was no match for the shaky
   cellphone clips of Zein’s roar. What viewers didn’t see was that Zein
   began by invoking the made-up meme from Sderot: “You are the actress!”

   This story first appeared in the Oct. 25 issue of The Hollywood
   Reporter magazine. Click here to subscribe.

Read More About:


THR Newsletters

   Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
   Subscribe Sign Up

More from The Hollywood Reporter

   Obituaries

Lola Dee, Popular Singer of the 1950s, Dies at 95
   President Joe Biden

President Biden Blasts Donald Trump While Kicking Off Fundraising Weekend in
Hollywood
   Hollywood Flashback

Hollywood Flashback: 40 Years Ago, Cyndi Lauper Declared “Girls Just Want to
Have Fun”
   Gary Dauberman

‘Stray Dogs’ Creators Unsheathe the Claws for ‘Feral’ (Exclusive)
   Feinberg Forecast

Feinberg Forecast: Updated Oscar Projections Post Spirit, NYFCC, NBR and AFI
Awards Announcements
   Ryan Seacrest

Ryan Seacrest on Opening His 14th Children’s Hospital Studio and Starting
Wheel Duties With Vanna White

Shopping With THR

   Best Apple AirTag Deal on Amazon

Apple AirTags Are On Major Sale Online Right Now —  This Deal Is Even Better
Than Black Friday Prices

   By Danielle Directo-Meston
   Living room with a Microsoft Xbox Series X home video game console
   alongside a television and soundbar, taken on October 9, 2020. (Photo
   by Phil Barker/Future Publishing via Getty Images)

The Best Xbox Bundle Deals to Shop Online, Including Series X and Series S
Editions

   By Rudie Obias
   Best Gifts for Filmmakers and Film Students

The 20+ Best Gifts for Future Filmmakers, From Camera Gear to
Director-Approved Books

   By Thomas Hindle, Danielle Directo-Meston
   best hulu deals offers bundles

Hulu’s 3-in-1 Deal Gets You Live TV Streaming With Disney+ and ESPN+ for Free

   By Tim Chan

THR Newsletters

   Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
   Email Address ____________________
   By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our
   Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information
   to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA
   Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Most Popular

   photo illustration of Gerry Turner hidden within a black silhouette

The Golden Bachelor’s Not-So-Golden Past

   By Suzanne O'Malley, Barbara Lippert
   Ryan O'Neal

Ryan O’Neal, Star of ‘Love Story,’ ‘What’s Up, Doc?’ and ‘Paper Moon,’ Dies
at 82

   By Mike Barnes
   illustration of Linda Yaccarino hanging off a giant X (app) icon that
   is surrounded by fire

Linda Yaccarino’s Very Unmerry X Mess

   By Kim Masters
   Golden Bachelor

Golden Bachelor Gerry Turner Reacts to That Secret Girlfriend Exposé

   By James Hibberd
   Zack Snyder was photographed Nov. 20 at Stone Quarry in Pasadena.

Zack Snyder’s Next Cut: No Capes Allowed

   By Borys Kit

Must Reads

   From left Origin’s Aunjanue Ellis Taylor, Andrew Scott in All of Us
   Strangers, Anatomy of a Fall’s Sandra Hüller, Killers of the Flower
   Moon’s Lily Gladstone, May December’s Natalie Portman and Charles
   Melton, Franz Rogowski in Passages.

Critics’ Conversation: The Great Film Performances of 2023

   By Jon Frosch, David Rooney, Sheri Linden, Lovia Gyarkye
   Ike's Revenge An Ousted Marvel Mogul Looms As Disney's Proxy Fight
   Heats Up

Ike’s Revenge? Ousted Marvel Mogul Looms As Disney Proxy Fight Heats Up

   By Alex Weprin
   Margot Robbie, Jenna Ortega, Bela Bajaria

The Hollywood Reporter’s 2023 Women in Entertainment Power 100

   By Mikey O'Connell, Editor
   THR cover 23 low res - Adele

The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News

   Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter
   SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up



   PMC Logo

Most Popular

RSN Meltdown Plays Role in Mark Cuban’s Sale of Mavericks

Tom Brady Was Spotted Paying a Late-Night Visit to Gisele Bündchen’s Home for
a Very Wholesome Reason

Monica Says C-Murder Left Her "Heartbroken," Walks Red Carpet With New Man

Pace Gallery's Marc Glimcher Spotted in Good Company for Art Basel Miami
Beach, including Venus Williams and Jeff Bezos

You may also like

Get Echelon’s Smart Rower for 66% Off on Amazon Today

   2 weeks ago

Celine Unveils a New Line of Luxe Pet Accessories, From Leashes to Collars

   18 hours ago

Nicki Minaj, Benny The Butcher, Blu & Nottz, And More Can’t-Miss
Hip-Hop Releases

   25 mins ago

Derek Hough Says Wife Is ‘On the Long Road of Recovery’ After Emergency
Brain Surgery

   7 hours ago

   THR cover 23 low res - Adele

Subscriber Support


The Hollywood Reporter


Legal


Follow Us


Newsletter Sign Up

   Sign Up ____________________
   By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our
   Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information
   to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA
   Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Have a Tip?

   Send us a tip using our anonymous form.
   Send Us a Tip Sign Up

   Icon Link Plus Icon
   The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2023
   The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
   THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood
   Reporter, LLC.
   Powered by WordPress.com VIP

Our Sites


   The Hollywood Reporter homepage

Follow Us


Alerts & Newsletters

   Your Email ____________________
   By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our
   Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information
   to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA
   Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.



   Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media
   Corporation. © 2023 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
   THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood
   Reporter, LLC.

   ad

   Quantcast
