   #alternate alternate National » Feed National » Politics Feed


                    # Biden: Failure to pass Ukraine funding would be
                      "Christmas gift" to Putin
                    # White House lays out offer on immigration changes in
                      talks with Congress
                    # Biden says Netanyahu's government needs to change
                    # Andre Braugher, "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" actor, dead at
                      61
                    # Pregnant woman suing over abortion learns embryo has
                      no cardiac activity
                    # N.Y. Court of Appeals sides with Dems, orders
                      redrawing of congressional maps
                    # New Hampshire Governor Chris Sununu endorses Nikki
                      Haley
                    # Body pulled from Chicago pond amid search for
                      missing teen Brissa Romero
                    # Man charged Nebraska priest's stabbing death

   Watch CBS News

   Politics

China investing "unprecedented resources" in disinformation, surveillance
tactics, new report says

   By Olivia Gazis

   September 28, 2023 / 8:28 PM EDT / CBS News

   China's government is investing "unprecedented resources" in a range of
   disinformation, surveillance and censorship tactics it uses in efforts
   to shape international narratives in its favor among foreign audiences
   around the world, a new report released Thursday by the State
   Department said.

   "As the [People's Republic of China] has grown more confident in its
   power, it appears to have calculated that it can more aggressively
   pursue its interests via information manipulation," the report,
   compiled by the department's Global Engagement Center, said.

   It warned that some of the methods Beijing has honed and is spending
   billions on annually are "deceptive and coercive," use false or biased
   claims, or involve technologically-enabled tracking or suppression
   techniques to stifle criticism of its policies or political leadership.

   The report, which relied on publicly available information, as well as
   information collected by the U.S. government, listed as examples the
   Chinese Communist Party's (CCP) use of automated bot networks to
   amplify Chinese diplomats' own posts (or attack those of critics), its
   use of state media employees posing as social media "influencers" to
   reach foreign audiences and its acquisition of satellite and
   telecommunications technologies to monitor and control information

   Chinese state media "routinely amplified" pro-Kremlin or anti-NATO
   propaganda in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, including
   boosting Moscow's claims there were secret biological weapons
   facilities funded by the United States on Ukraine's territory,
   according to the report.

   "Russia has returned the favor by promoting PRC propaganda related to
   Taiwan and other PRC interests," the report said.

   One example included in the report noted the Beijing "heavily
   amplified" its own messaging about the military and economic responses
   it took to protest former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi's visit to
   Taiwan in August of last year, while suppressing statements that were
   critical of the Chinese government's reaction.

   It also said the Chinese government had used real-world intimidation
   tactics to discourage dissent. Citing information obtained by the U.S.
   government, it said authorities within the CCP worked with private
   companies within China to "identify and locate critics abroad who might
   have considered online anonymity a protection against PRC government
   retaliation or harassment." The report did not name the companies.

   "You can see a breathtaking ambition to have information dominance in
   certain parts of the world, crucial parts of the world," GEC
   coordinator James Rubin said in a briefing on Thursday. "That's the
   threat that affects our national security that affects the national
   security of other parties."

   The GEC assessment said certain countries were beginning to follow
   Beijing's example, noting some African governments have used Huawei
   communication systems provided by China to track the locations and
   intercept communications of political opposition members.

   It also said Beijing's successes were more limited in democratic
   countries.

   "Although backed by unprecedented resources, the PRC's propaganda and
   censorship have, to date, yielded mixed results," the report said.
   "When targeting democratic countries, Beijing has encountered major
   setbacks, often due to pushback from local media and civil society."

Trending News

   A U.S. Customs and Border Protection officer directs migrants at the
   US-Mexico border in Lukeville, Arizona, US, on Monday, Dec. 11, 2023.
   White House lays out offer on immigration changes in talks with
   Congress
   Flanked by his attorneys, former President Donald Trump speaks to the
   media while attending his trial in New York State Supreme Court on Dec.
   7, 2023.
   Trump's defense concludes its case in New York fraud trial
   Donald Trump
   Investigators accessed Trump White House cellphone records
   kate-cox.jpg
   Texas Supreme Court rules against woman seeking emergency abortion
   cbsn-fusion-how-israel-is-responding-to-bidens-address-to-the-us-over-f
   unding-for-israel-1-thumbnail.jpg
   Biden says Netanyahu's government needs to change

   First published on September 28, 2023 / 8:28 PM EDT

   Thanks for reading CBS NEWS.
   Create your free account or log in
   for more features.
   Please enter email address to continue
   Please enter valid email address to continue

More from CBS News

Biden says Netanyahu's government needs to change

What the new inflation report means for savers

Christie looks to McCain's 2008 primary bid as model for his campaign

Donald Trump says he will not testify in civil fraud trial on Monday

   Copyright ©2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.


   View CBS News In
   CBS News App Open
   Chrome Safari Continue

   Be the first to know
   Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive
   reporting.
