   #alternate alternate alternate


   Search



   Insights & Analysis
   Article
   Europe's Edge

Behind the Lines: Propaganda Poisoning

   By Elina Beketova
   November 30, 2023

   Russia’s propaganda campaign in Ukraine’s occupied territories is
   producing a lot of content, but does it cut through?
   Photo: TV Appeal of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin to the
   citizens of Russia, personnel of the Armed Forces of the Russian
   Federation, law enforcement officers in connection with the situation
   with PMC Wagner. Credit: Photo by Artem Priakhin / SOPA Images/Sipa USA

   Immediately after the full-scale invasion in February 2022, Russia
   intensified its propaganda messaging through TV stations, newspapers,
   and other conventional outlets, but its main priority was online.

   Since creating content for TV channels and newspapers is expensive, the
   news aggregators on the social media app Telegram to republish Moscow’s
   version of events.

   “Now I’m at one of the markets in the city of Melitopol — let’s look at
   the range of goods,” a young woman wearing a T-shirt emblazoned with
   the word “Manchester” says to a hand-held camera, before it pans along
   displays of vegetables, fruit, pet food and candies.

   The backgrounds of the shots are carefully cropped so it is hard to
   establish the location, but the intention is to show normal life
   continuing in the occupied city. While it suggests desperation that the
   best “normality” they can show is the sale of tomatoes, cucumbers, and
   dog food, the video has been viewed 5,000 times.

   Another video, by the same young woman, features a claim that roads are
   being repaired, though it shows no evidence of work being carried out.
   With a lot of Zhiguli and Tavriya cars in the shots, it also
   unintentionally signals links to the Soviet past and the poverty many
   Ukrainians associate with being part of the Russian world.
   Photo: A worker takes a pause while mowing the grass in front of newly
   built apartment blocks, in the course of Russia-Ukraine conflict, in
   Mariupol, Russian-controlled Ukraine, August 16, 2023. Credit:
   REUTERS/Alexander Ermochenko Photo: A worker takes a pause while mowing
   the grass in front of newly built apartment blocks, in the course of
   Russia-Ukraine conflict, in Mariupol, Russian-controlled Ukraine,
   August 16, 2023. Credit: REUTERS/Alexander Ermochenko

   A post of dancers in ethnic costumes on “National Unity Day” in
   Melitopol shows grim-faced young people performing while surrounded by
   Russian flags under the gaze of men in uniform.

   Since the full-scale invasion, the number of these Telegram channels
   covering the occupied territories has exploded.

   “Most of these Telegram channels are not created for local residents
   and there aren’t too many local subscribers,” said Serhii Nikitenko,
   editor-in-chief of Most (“Bridge”), a Ukrainian news website founded in
   2012. “I sometimes wonder if they are created just to show those who
   have ordered them that something is being done.”

   Originally from Kherson, Nikitenko travels continuously and is back and
   forth to the liberated city with his team, though they are spread
   across different Ukrainian locations for security reasons.

   “More people are subscribed to the ‘official’ Telegram channels of the
   the information needed for living in the occupied territories.”

   The Russians exploit these subscriptions by posting propaganda material
   faked videos about life in Ukrainian-controlled territory posted on the
   channel of the Russian-appointed governor of the occupied part of
   Kherson Oblast, Nikitenko said.
   Get the Latest
   Sign up to receive regular emails and stay informed about CEPA's work.

   Email
   Submit

   Δ


   Throughout the war, the occupiers have struggled to create media that
   is popular among local residents. In March 2022 they seized the Kherson
   it to re-broadcast Russian channels until the creation of Tavria, a
   propaganda channel using Suspline’s infrastructure.

   Attempts to find local collaborators failed because most local media
   workers didn’t want to work with Russian forces, so people loyal to
   Moscow were brought in from Russia or the self-proclaimed Luhansk and
   Donetsk People’s Republics to work on Tavria.

   The same happened in occupied Mariupol and Melitopol, where Russians
   worked on the reorganization of Za!TV.

   Alexander Malkevich, who runs state-funded TV in St Petersburg and has
   been tasked with setting up pro-Russian television stations in the
   Oblast to train journalists and bloggers to make up for the shortfall
   in local contributors.

   The young people who graduate from the school are then able to work in
   media in the occupied parts of the Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions.

   Members of Yunarmiya (Young Army, which prepares children for service
   in Russia’s armed forces or special services) are also encouraged to
   attend the school, underlining its status as a factory for
   propagandists. Russian correspondents who justify the invasion of
   Ukraine are among those who have been invited to train the students.
   Photo: New recruits attend a swear-in ceremony before joining the
   Russian military-patriotic club "Yunarmia" (Young army) in the Black
   Sea port of Sevastopol, Crimea, October 27, 2018. Credit: REUTERS/Pavel
   Rebrov Photo: New recruits attend a swear-in ceremony before joining
   the Russian military-patriotic club “Yunarmia” (Young army) in the
   Black Sea port of Sevastopol, Crimea, October 27, 2018. Credit:
   REUTERS/Pavel Rebrov

   And the teenagers working on propaganda channels have attracted the
   attention of the Kremlin. Vlada Lugovskaya, who was 15 years old when
   she started working for Tavria, was presented with an award for courage
   by President Vladimir Putin at a ceremony in Moscow on International
   Women’s Day.

   Others have changed careers to serve the occupiers. Before the
   full-scale invasion, Yulia Sipko worked at the Kherson Regional Center
   for advanced training, organizing educational activities for civil
   servants and local government officials. Now she is a program director
   at Tavria.

   Despite Russia’s emphasis on new media, Serhii Nikitenko has convinced
   the biggest propaganda effect in Kherson was delivered by Russian
   television when it was broadcast in the occupied Ukrainian territory
   and the newspaper Naddneprianskaia pravda.

   “The majority of people who remained in the occupied territory were
   seniors, who trust the traditional media,” he said. “They started
   issuing the newspaper free of charge in Kherson when it was occupied,
   the first number came out somewhere in May 2022, and by now there have
   been about 40 editions.”

   Nikitenko stresses the importance of working to counter Russian
   disinformation in the occupied territories using all means at Ukraine’s
   disposal, whether that’s Telegram, radio stations, or any other ways of
   contacting people, he said.

   The more time that passes, the more residents will see the distorted
   reality of the propaganda channels and the greater the risk they will
   be converted to the “Russian world” mentality, he warned.

   There have been multiple cases of people who live under Moscow’s rule
   in Donetsk and Luhansk repeating Russian propaganda, then taking up
   arms and going to war against their fellow citizens in other parts of
   Ukraine. That trend needs to be stopped.

   Elina Beketova is a Democracy Fellow at the Center for European Policy
   Analysis (CEPA), focusing on the temporarily occupied territories of
   Ukraine. She worked as a journalist, editor, and TV anchor for various
   news stations in Kharkiv and Kyiv, and currently contributes to the
   translator’s team of Ukrainska Pravda, Ukraine’s biggest online
   newspaper. 

   Europe’s Edge is CEPA’s online journal covering critical topics on the
   foreign policy docket across Europe and North America. All opinions are
   those of the author and do not necessarily represent the position or
   views of the institutions they represent or the Center for European
   Policy Analysis.
   Europe's Edge
   CEPA’s online journal covering critical topics on the foreign policy
   docket across Europe and North America.
   Read More

Related Articles

   Photo: The 93rd Kholodny Yar brigade of Ukraine shoots a javelin at a
   Russian tank. Credit:  93rd separate mechanized brigade "Kholodny Yar"
   Forces of Ukraine via Facebook.
   Better News for NATO From Ukraine’s Battlefields
   December 12, 2023
   Europe's Edge
   NATO
   Russia
   Photo: Russia's President Vladimir Putin is seen on a screen during the
   broadcast of a Russian state TV news report as a local resident walks
   near an apartment block decorated with a mural, an element of which
   depicts a nuclear power plant, in the course of Russia-Ukraine conflict
   in the city of Enerhodar in the Zaporizhzhia region, Russian-controlled
   Ukraine, October 14, 2022. Credit: REUTERS/Alexander Ermochenko
   Bandit Romance Brings Discord for Putin’s Sidekicks
   December 12, 2023
   Civil Society
   Europe's Edge
   Hybrid Threats
   Photo: Russian President Vladimir Putin is reflected in the glasses of
   a cadet watching Putin's annual news conference on TV at the cadet
   school outside the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don December 20,
   2012. Putin said on Thursday a U.S. law that punishes Russians who
   abuse human rights was poisoning ties with Washington but signalled
   support for a retaliatory ban on Americans adopting Russian children.
   Credit: REUTERS/Vladimir Konstantinov (RUSSIA - Tags: POLITICS MILITARY
   TPX IMAGES OF THE DAY)
   Pro-Putin Disinformation Warriors Take War of Aggression to Reddit
   December 12, 2023
   Disinformation
   Europe's Edge
   Hybrid Threats

Related Issue Tags

   Europe's Edge Hybrid Threats Russia
   Photo: TV Appeal of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin to the
   citizens of Russia, personnel of the Armed Forces of the Russian
   Federation, law enforcement officers in connection with the situation
   with PMC Wagner. Credit: Photo by Artem Priakhin / SOPA Images/Sipa USA

   CEPA
   Quick Links

   Contact
   1275 Pennsylvania Ave NW, Suite 400, Washington, DC 20004
   Follow

   Website designed by nclud.
   Privacy Policy
