    #The Nation » Feed The Nation » Comments Feed The Nation » Israel’s
   Ludicrous Propaganda Wins Over the Only Audience That Counts Comments
   Feed alternate alternate


Log In

   Email * ____________________
   Password * ____________________
   Remember Me

   Forgot Your Password?

   New to The Nation? Subscribe

   Print subscriber? Activate your online access

   Skip to content Skip to footer
   Israel’s Ludicrous Propaganda Wins Over the Only Audience That Counts



   Search ____________________ (Search)


Sections


The Nation


Current Issue

   Cover of December 25, 2023/January 1, 2024, Issue

   World / November 17, 2023

Israel’s Ludicrous Propaganda Wins Over the Only Audience That Counts

   Why make an effort to be credible if you’re going to be uncritically
   echoed by the White House and Western press?
   Jeet Heer
   Facebook
   Twitter
   Email
   Flipboard
   Pocket

   Ad Policy An arm wearing a green shirt holds up a bulletproof vest with
   a Hamas insignia

   In a video released by the Israel Defense Forces, a military spokesman
   holds up a vest with a Hamas insignia that he claims was found at
   Al-Shifa hospital in Gaza City.

   On November 11, an Arabic-language Twitter account maintained by
   Israel’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs posted a video purporting to be a
   selfie by a nurse in Al-Shifa hospital in Gaza, a major battlefield in
   the current conflict that was taken over by the Israel Defense Forces
   the background, the tearful nurse warned Gazans to heed the call of the
   IDF to flee to the south. She also affirmed many IDF talking points,
   notably that Hamas had taken over the hospital and were stealing
   morphine and fuel.

   The video gained millions of views—but was also widely mocked by many,
   particularly Arabs, who questioned its authenticity. For one thing,
   none of the staff in the hospital knew who this supposed nurse was. For
   another, she spoke in English with an accent that resembled no known
   Arab lilt.

   As Marc Owen Jones of The Daily Beast observed, “Everything about it
   smacked of high school theater—from the botched accent that sounded
   like it was straight out of an Israeli soap opera to the perfectly
   scripted IDF talking points rolling off her tongue.” Jones also noted
   “the pristine white lab coat looking like it had just come back from
   the dry cleaner, the audio track of bombs falling that sounded like
   samples from a late-’80s Casio keyboard, and the contrived
   stethoscope-waving you‘d expect from an extra on Grey’s Anatomy.”

   Within a day, the tweet of the video was deleted by the Ministry of
   Foreign Affairs. But of course, downloaded versions continue to
   circulate.

   Lying and propaganda are endemic to warfare. Public opinion is always
   as much a battlefield as actual territory. But in the case of Israel’s
   the civilian population of the besieged territory—propaganda has taken
   a bizarre turn. This is propaganda that barely makes any effort to
   convince, instead offering ludicrous arguments in implausible forms. To
   pay attention to Israeli propaganda in recent weeks is like watching a
   magic trick done by an inept conjurer who constantly lets the audience
   see the mirrors and wires that are supposed to create optical
   illusions.

   As Hussein Ibish, a resident scholar at the Arab Gulf States Institute
   notes, “Israel’s propaganda has always been ham-handed and ridiculous,
   but during this Gaza war, it has been so pathetically bad and jumped
   the shark so terribly that it’s going to be very difficult to restore
   any credibility at all with a great many people in the US and Europe.”

Current Issue

   Cover of December 25, 2023/January 1, 2024, Issue
   December 25, 2023/January 1, 2024, Issue

   A few examples will suffice. On November 5, Israel bombed a car
   travelling from South Lebanon to Beirut. The IDF told the press that it
   “struck a vehicle in Lebanese territory that was identified as a
   suspicious vehicle containing several terrorists.” In fact, as Human
   Rights Watch later established, the car was civilian, containing a
   grandmother, a mother, and three young girls. The mother was wounded;
   the grandmother and girls were killed. Human Rights Watch concluded
   that this was an “apparent war crime” and “the attack on a vehicle
   containing only fleeing civilians shows reckless disregard by the
   Israeli military for its obligation to distinguish between civilian and
   military objects and a significant failure to take adequate safeguards
   to prevent civilian deaths.” Israel has promised an investigation, but
   based on previous experience that is likely to be slow and result only
   in a tepid admission of error.

   On November 13, the IDF released a video of spokesman Daniel Hagari
   touring Rantisi hospital. Hagari kept calling attention to banal
   housed terrorist cell. At one point he pointed to a baby bottle and
   said, “It’s a baby bottle. It’s a baby bottle in a basement, above a
   World Health Organization sign.” Then Hagari pointed to a list on a
   wall and claimed, “This is a guardians’ list, where every terrorist
   writes his name and every terrorist has his own shift, guarding the
   people that were here.”

   As those fluent in Arabic pointed out, the supposed “guardians list”
   was nothing more or less than a calendar with the days of the week on
   it. The IDF blamed the fiasco on a “translation error.”

   On November 15, Middle East Monitor reported, “The Israeli army killed
   an elderly Palestinian after using him in a propaganda campaign
   promoting its ‘safe corridor’ in Gaza.” The IDF circulated a photo of
   the 79-year old man, Bashir Hajji, talking to IDF soldiers as proof of
   their careful shepherding of refugees fleeing the bombardment in the
   north. This photo was undermined by the fact that an Israeli sniper
   shot Hajji twice in the back of the head.

The Nation Weekly

   Fridays. A weekly digest of the best of our coverage.
   Email ____________________
   By signing up, you confirm that you are over the age of 16 and agree to
   receive occasional promotional offers for programs that support The
   Nation’s journalism. You may unsubscribe or adjust your preferences at
   any time. You can read our Privacy Policy here.

   Israeli officials have also falsely tried to suggest that images of
   Palestinian civilians being killed are fabrications and created by
   “Pallywood” crisis actors (Pallywood being a neologism mixing
   Palestinian and Hollywood). This claim is not just wrong but deeply
   conspiratorial—at the level of extremists like Alex Jones, who made
   similar claims about mass shootings in the United States. It is
   astonishing for a government to make such claims.

   The biggest ongoing propaganda fiasco involves Al-Shifa hospital—one
   that deeply implicates not just the Israeli government but also the
   Biden administration. On October 13, the IDF released an elaborate
   drawing purporting to show the “the main headquarters for Hamas’
   terrorist activities.” The drawing showed an extensive network of
   well-lighted tunnels and large rooms that resembled nothing so much as
   the villain’s lair in a James Bond film.

   Ad Policy

Popular

   “swipe left below to view more authors”Swipe →
    1.

Israel Is Losing This War Israel Is Losing This War
       Tony Karon and Daniel Levy
    2.

How Did Marxism Become Marxism? How Did Marxism Become Marxism?
       Books & the Arts / Peter E. Gordon
    3.

How Zionism Feeds Antisemitism How Zionism Feeds Antisemitism
       Dave Zirin
    4.

Why Netanyahu Bolstered Hamas Why Netanyahu Bolstered Hamas
       Jeet Heer

   On Tuesday, National Security Council spokesman John Kirby said, “I can
   confirm for you that we have information that Hamas, and the
   Palestinian Islamic Jihad, use some hospitals in the Gaza Strip
   including Al Shifa, and tunnels underneath them, to conceal and to
   support their military operations and to hold hostages.”

   Israel took control of Al Shifa hospital the next day. What they found
   there was underwhelming. As The Washington Post noted, on Thursday, the
   IDF said “that searches had uncovered the body of a captive Israeli
   woman in a house near the hospital, along with weapons. On Wednesday,
   the IDF released photographs and video of small caches of weapons it
   said belonged to Hamas.” That video also showed thatthe hospital had a
   box of dates (a well-loved fruit among Arabs) and two copies of the
   Quran (a book holy to hundreds of millions). From the Post:

     The military added to its case Thursday with a photo and video of a
     rough cavity that it described as an “operational tunnel shaft.” The
     Washington Post verified the location of the shaft inside the
     Al-Shifa Hospital complex but could not verify where the opening led
     that corroborate its claims that Al-Shifa sits atop a Hamas
     headquarters and was central to the militant group’s operations in
     northern Gaza.

   The IDF also suggested that “Hamas knew we were coming” and moved the
   headquarters—hence the absence of evidence for a robust Hamas presence.
   This is truly the territory of Donald Rumsfeld during the Iraq War,
   when he famously remarked that “absence of evidence is not evidence of
   absence” in relation to the nonexistent weapons of mass destruction.

   It remains possible that a few Hamas fighters were holed up in a very
   large hospital with hundreds of patients. But it seems unlikely the
   hospital had ever been “the main headquarters” of Hamas. The IDF may
   yet find more evidence of a Hamas presence there; however, the original
   narrative seems to be a fabulation.

   But then the very idea of a Hamas command center is a flight of
   fantasy. The military wing of Hamas is not a regular army but an
   insurgent force that weaves in and out of the population, moving “among
   the people as a fish swims in the sea,” in Mao’s famous phrase. Israel
   has projected onto a guerrilla army the form of a more conventional
   force organized by a nation state—a common mistake in counterinsurgency
   warfare.

   Yet Joe Biden seems unfazed by the flimsiness of the evidence provided
   by Israel. On Wednesday, he said, “You have a circumstance where the
   first war crime is being committed by Hamas by having their
   headquarters, their military, hidden under a hospital. And that’s a
   fact; that’s what’s happened.” The phrase “first war crime” is
   suggestive, sounding as it does like the complaint of a child caught
   hitting a sibling arguing over who started it. Under international law,
   Hamas’s committing a war crime doesn’t give Israel a licence to commit
   crimes in response to Hamas’s actions.

   Asked for evidence of the command center, Biden said, “No, I can’t tell
   you—I won’t tell you.”

   Biden also claimed that Israel was very careful in taking over Al-Shifa
   Hospital in comparison to its earlier actions. According to the
   president, “So, this is a different story than I believe was occurring
   before, an indiscriminate bombing.” Biden’s admission that Israel, with
   American support, conducted indiscriminate bombing is yet another
   confession of a war crime.

   In the unlikely event that Biden and Netanyahu are ever brought before
   the Hague for crimes against humanity, Biden has provided ample
   evidence in his own words.

   All of these mistakes should help retire the durable myth of the IDF
   and Mossad (the Israeli intelligence agency) as omnicompetent fighting
   forces. Indeed, the Hamas attack of October 7, which instigated the
   current round of the Israel/Palestine conflict, was itself a massive
   intelligence failure—one that calls into question long-standing
   policies by multiple governments (including the United States) to
   sideline the issue of Palestinian statehood.

   Israel’s poor propaganda is another indication of Israeli incompetence.
   Yet all these failures count for little as long as Israel benefits from
   the soft bigotry of low expectations by its supporters, including the
   president of the United States.

   Joe Biden is clearly willing to back whatever Israel does, including
   indiscriminate bombing and other war crimes. The American media is also
   complicit. As HuffPost has documented, CNN has a habit of airing IDF
   videos with false information (including the calendar fiasco). Then,
   when the errors are pointed out, these same videos are carefully edited
   to delete the falsehood when placed online, without an editorial note
   explaining or acknowledging what was cut. In effect, CNN is the IDF’s
   partner in propaganda.

   But then Israel’s half-baked propaganda isn’t aimed at regular people.
   The American public is quickly souring on Israel’s war. As Reuters
   reports, only 32 percent of Americans support Israel in this conflict,
   down from 41 percent a month ago. The same poll shows 68 percent
   support for a ceasefire.

   Sadly, the fact that the public isn’t buying Israel’s campaign of lies
   counts for little. Foreign policy is made by elites. Biden and the US
   Congress are still firmly behind Israel. Even if Joe Biden is the only
   person on earth who really believes Israel’s propaganda, that is more
   than enough to make it successful.
   Keep Reading

   From now until the end of the year, all donations up to $100,000 will
   be matched up by a generous supporter. Donate to support The Nation’s
   independent journalism today and double your impact!

Jeet Heer

   Jeet Heer is a national affairs correspondent for The Nation and host
   monthly column “Morbid Symptoms.” The author of In Love with Art:
   Francoise Mouly’s Adventures in Comics with Art Spiegelman (2013)
   and Sweet Lechery: Reviews, Essays and Profiles (2014), Heer has
   written for numerous publications, including The New Yorker, The Paris
   Review, Virginia Quarterly Review, The American Prospect, The
   Guardian, The New Republic, and The Boston Globe.

   The story you just read is made possible by a dedicated community of
   Nation reader-supporters who give to support our progressive,
   independent journalism. A generous supporter has agreed to match all
   donations up to $100,000 from now until the end of the year. Make a
   contribution before 12/31 and double your impact. Donate today!

More from Jeet Heer Jeet Heer Illustration

   Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu attends the funeral for Sgt.
   Maj. Gal Meir Eisenkot at the Herzliya cemetery on December 8, 2023.

Why Netanyahu Bolstered Hamas Why Netanyahu Bolstered Hamas

   The Israeli prime minister followed a decades-old divide-and-rule
   strategy that fuels endless war.

   Jeet Heer
   Donald Trump and Nikki Haley, oval office 2018

Nikki Haley’s Fake Moderation Should Fool No One Nikki Haley’s Fake
Moderation Should Fool No One

   The favorite of plutocrats and the mainstream media is running a deeply
   deceptive campaign.

   Jeet Heer
   Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu hugs US President Joe Biden
   upon his arrival at Tel Aviv's Ben Gurion airport on October 18, 2023.

Biden’s Bear Hug of Netanyahu Is a Disaster Biden’s Bear Hug of Netanyahu Is
a Disaster

   The renewed fighting between Israel and Hamas shows the incoherence of
   mixing humanitarian words and bigger bombs.

   Comment / Jeet Heer
   A hand holds a poster of Gurpatwant Singh Pannun's face with an X over
   it

If Narendra Modi Is Running a Global Death Squad, He’ll Be Protected by the
Kissinger Doctrine If Narendra Modi Is Running a Global Death Squad, He’ll Be
Protected by the Kissinger Doctrine

   Trying to murder American citizens on American soil is no big deal—so
   long as the foreign policy elite likes you.

   Jeet Heer
   An adult with two children pastes paper onto a wall covered in graffiti

The Humanitarian Pause Is a Chance to Pull Back From a Mindless War The
Humanitarian Pause Is a Chance to Pull Back From a Mindless War

   The extended hostage exchange offers the opportunity to move from war
   to cease-fire to negotiations.

   Jeet Heer
   Pierre Omidyar, the chairman and founder of eBay, looks on during the
   final session of the annual Clinton Global Initiative meeting in New
   York, on September 23, 2010.

Why “Liberal” Donors Love Giving Money to the Extreme Right Why “Liberal”
Donors Love Giving Money to the Extreme Right

   Many purportedly progressive plutocrats turn reactionary on Israel and
   labor.

   Jeet Heer

Sections


Magazine


More


Follow


   Founded by abolitionists in 1865, The Nation has long believed that
   independent journalism has the capacity to bring about a more
   democratic and equitable world.
   Donate

   x

Latest from the nation

   Yesterday 10:52 am

The Progressive Refugee Policy That Puts the West to Shame

   Natasha Hakimi Zapata
   Yesterday 10:39 am

Biden Should Abolish Secretive Corporate Tribunals that Bypass the Law

   Molly Taft
   Yesterday 8:30 am

Indigenous Wisdom

   Juan Henry Mendez Chavajay
   Yesterday 5:00 am

The Antitrust Lessons of the OpenAI Saga

   Brian Callaci
   Yesterday 5:00 am

Bayard Rustin Was No Hollywood Figurehead

   Adolph Reed Jr.

editor's picks

VIDEO: People in Denmark Are a Lot Happier Than People in the United States.
Here’s Why.

   The Nation

Historical Amnesia About Slavery Is a Tool of White Supremacy

   Mychal Denzel Smith
