   #alternate alternate National » Feed National » CBS Saturday Morning
   Feed


                    # Biden: Failure to pass Ukraine funding would be
                      "Christmas gift" to Putin
                    # White House lays out offer on immigration changes in
                      talks with Congress
                    # Biden says Netanyahu's government needs to change
                    # Andre Braugher, "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" actor, dead at
                      61
                    # Pregnant woman suing over abortion learns embryo has
                      no cardiac activity
                    # N.Y. Court of Appeals sides with Dems, orders
                      redrawing of congressional maps
                    # New Hampshire Governor Chris Sununu endorses Nikki
                      Haley
                    # Body pulled from Chicago pond amid search for
                      missing teen Brissa Romero
                    # Man charged Nebraska priest's stabbing death

   Watch CBS News

   CBS Saturday Morning

Social media disinformation spreads amid war in Israel

   cbs-mornings-saturday

   By Jo Ling Kent, Kerry Breen

   October 14, 2023 / 8:33 AM EDT / CBS News


   Misinformation amid the Israel-Hamas war 03:00

   As the war in Israel and Gaza plays out in real time on social media,
   experts say bad information and propaganda are spreading on X, formerly
   known as Twitter.

   Alethea, a research group, said that they had detected a network of at
   least 67 accounts on the site posting false content about the war.
   Those posts, which include mistranslated videos, have received millions

   "It matters whether or not people believe it," said Lisa Kaplan, the
   Alethea founder, told CBS News. "The more times that people are able to
   view content of a similar nature, the more opportunities an actor has
   to convince somebody of something that may or may not be true."

   The war comes after Elon Musk, the owner of X, laid off much of the
   team responsible for monitoring posts on the site. On Tuesday, the
   European Union sent the billionaire a letter asking him to immediately
   remove "illegal content and disinformation." If not, "penalties can be
   imposed," the E.U. warned.

   X said early last week that they have already removed "Hamas-affiliated
   accounts" and "several hundred accounts." Other major social media
   platforms, including Facebook, TikTok, and Snap told CBS News that they
   have increased their resources to fight disinformation.

   Mike Caulfield, a research scientist at the Center for an Informed
   Public, a multidisciplinary research center at Seattle's University of
   Washington, said that ongoing disinformation can cause chaos.

   "When we flood people with this sea of unvetted information, much of it
   deceptive, we're throwing away the goodwill of our citizens," Caulfield
   said. "We're opening the door to a variety of people that want to
   manipulate their goodwill."

   Kaplan said as the war continues, she and Alethea expect to see the

   "More actors will be weaponizing information," she said.

Israel & Hamas At War

   More
   cbsn-fusion-how-israel-is-responding-to-bidens-address-to-the-us-over-f
   unding-for-israel-1-thumbnail.jpg
   Biden says Netanyahu's government needs to change
   screen-shot-2023-12-12-at-1-56-53-pm.png
   Bodies of 2 hostages recovered in Gaza, Israel says
   President Biden Hosts A Hanukkah Holiday Reception At The White House
   Biden to meet with families of Americans taken hostage by Hamas
   Israeli air strike on Palestinian houses, amid the ongoing conflict
   between Israel and the Palestinian Islamist group Hamas, in Rafah
   Palestinians point finger of blame at the U.S. as deaths soar in Gaza
   ISRAEL-PALESTINIAN-CONFLICT
   U.N. says Israel-Hamas war causing "unmatched" suffering in Gaza
   More
   In:

   Jo Ling Kent

   Jo Ling Kent is a senior business and technology correspondent for CBS
   News.
   Twitter Instagram

   First published on October 14, 2023 / 8:33 AM EDT

   Thanks for reading CBS NEWS.
   Create your free account or log in
   for more features.
   Please enter email address to continue
   Please enter valid email address to continue

More from CBS News

Palestinians point finger of blame at the U.S. as deaths soar in Gaza

Israel continues attacks across Gaza as hopes for cease-fire fade

Oprah Winfrey talks passing the baton in "The Color Purple" adaptation

Bodies of 2 hostages recovered in Gaza, Israel says

   Copyright ©2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.


   View CBS News In
   CBS News App Open
   Chrome Safari Continue

   Be the first to know
   Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive
   reporting.
