

   Copyright © 2023, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy
   | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal
   Information



   Focus mode (Focus mode)

   Advertisement

   Politics

Supreme Court will decide Biden-GOP clash over social media and COVID
disinformation

   Light illuminates part of the Supreme Court building at dusk
   The Supreme Court building in Washington.
   By David G. SavageStaff Writer
   Oct. 20, 2023 2:11 PM PT


   WASHINGTON —

   The Supreme Court agreed Friday to hear a second major case on social
   media and will decide whether the Biden White House violated the 1st
   Amendment when it urged platforms to take down “misinformation and
   disinformation” about COVID-19.

   Three conservatives dissented and said the court should have kept in
   place a judge’s order that barred administration officials from
   contacting social media sites.

   “Government censorship of private speech is antithetical to our
   democratic form of government,” Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., joined by
   Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil M. Gorsuch wrote, calling the court’s
   move to rule on the issue “highly disturbing.”

   The justices now have before them two contrasting views of how the 1st
   Amendment’s right to free speech applies to social media, both of which
   were endorsed by conservative judges from the 5th Circuit Court of
   Appeals in New Orleans.

   The first view holds that a state (in this instance, Texas) does not
   violate the 1st Amendment if it imposes heavy fines on privately run
   social media sites for allegedly discriminating against conservative
   viewpoints.
   Advertisement

   The second view is that federal officials violated the 1st Amendment
   when they “significantly encouraged” social media sites to remove
   disinformation.

   The common element in both cases is that Republican officials in Texas,
   Louisiana and Missouri as well as the 5th Circuit judges believe
   conservative viewpoints are being unfairly suppressed on social media.

   Last month, the justices agreed to hear a free-speech challenge to a
   Texas law that authorized the state to regulate popular social media
   sites like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. NetChoice, a coalition of
   tech groups, contended the law violated the free-speech rights of the
   social media sites, but the 5th Circuit upheld the law on the theory
   that the state was seeking to combat “censorship.” The high court had
   blocked the law from taking effect by a 5-4 vote.

   The new case did not arise from complaints by social media sites but
   instead from a suit brought by Republican state attorneys general from
   Missouri and Louisiana. They said federal officials, including the
   surgeon general and the FBI, had conspired to “censor disfavored
   speech” by “significantly encouraging social media platforms” to remove
   some postings.

   They took their complaint to U.S. District Judge Terry Doughty, a Trump
   appointee in Monroe, La., who handed down an unusually far-reaching
   and agencies from “urging or encouraging” the removal of “protected
   speech” from social media. He described the administration’s conduct as
   “arguably … the most massive attack against free speech in United
   States’ history.”

   The Biden administration appealed to the 5th Circuit, but in early
   September, a different panel of three judges upheld most of the judge’s
   ruling.
   Advertisement

   They said administration “officials have engaged in a broad pressure
   campaign designed to coerce social-media companies into suppressing
   speakers, viewpoints, and content disfavored by the government. The
   harms that radiate from such conduct extend far .... It impacts every
   social-media user.”

   The injunction says the White House and “their employees and agents,
   shall take no actions, formal or informal, directly or indirectly, to
   coerce or significantly encourage social-media companies to remove,
   delete, suppress, or reduce, including through altering their
   algorithms, posted social-media content containing protected free
   speech.”

   U.S. Solicitor General Elizabeth B. Prelogar, representing the
   government, filed an emergency appeal asking the Supreme Court to block
   the judge’s order and to rule on the constitutional dispute.

   She said the case “concerns an unprecedented injunction installing the
   U.S. District Court for the Western District of Louisiana as the
   superintendent of the Executive Branch’s communications with and about
   social-media platforms — including senior White House officials’ speech
   addressing some of the most salient public issues of the day.”

   She said the district and appellate judges in Louisiana “did not
   identify any threat, implicit or explicit, of adverse consequences” if
   a social media site refused to remove certain content. Even so, they
   “entered a sweeping preliminary injunction governing thousands of
   federal officials’ and employees’ speech concerning any content posted

   She argued the states had no standing to sue, and White House officials
   were free to speak out against the spread of falsehoods about COVID
   vaccines or the 2020 election. “It is undisputed that the
   content-moderation decisions at issue in this case were made by private
   social-media companies, such as Facebook and YouTube,” she said in
   Murthy vs. Missouri.

   The complaints from the Republican state attorneys general were not
   limited to COVID-19. In their response to the appeal, they told the
   court that “the FBI orchestrated a deceptive campaign to induce
   platforms to censor the New York Post’s October 14, 2020 story about
   Hunter Biden’s laptop, just before the 2020 election.” In early 2021,
   when President Biden moved into the White House, “federal censorship
   activities escalated dramatically,” they added.

   Jeff Landry, the Louisiana attorney general who filed the original
   suit, won election last week as the state’s governor.
   PoliticsWorld & Nation
   David G. Savage

   Follow Us

   David G. Savage has covered the Supreme Court and legal issues for the
   Los Angeles Times in the Washington bureau since 1986.

More From the Los Angeles Times

       Philadelphia, July 1, 2023. A Florida school board is scheduled to
       consider whether to seek the resignation of a co-founder of the
       conservative Moms for Liberty group, who is embroiled in the
       fallout of a sexual assault investigation into her husband, the
       Republican Party state chairman. The Sarasota County School Board
       cannot oust Ziegler outright from the panel but was set to vote
       Tuesday, Dec. 12 on a resolution requesting that she step down. (AP
       Photo/Matt Rourke, file)
       World & Nation

Florida school board recommends ouster of Moms for Liberty co-founder over
Republican sex scandal
       Dec. 12, 2023
       Cash/Pool via AP)
       World & Nation

Biden takes a tougher stance on Israel’s ‘indiscriminate bombing’ of Gaza
       Dec. 12, 2023
       testifies as her mother Ruby Freeman listens at right, as the House
       select committee investigating the Jan. 6 attack on the U.S.
       Capitol holds a hearing at the Capitol in Washington, June 21,
       2022. In Giuliani's defamation trial, Wandrea “Shaye” Moss took the
       witness stand on Tuesday and read messages accusing her of treason,
       calling her a thug and a racist slur.(AP Photo/Jacquelyn Martin,
       File)
       World & Nation

Georgia election worker says she feared for her life over fraud lies in
Giuliani defamation case
       Dec. 12, 2023
       Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Ky., left, and Senate Majority
       Leader Chuck Schumer of N.Y., right, during a visit to Capitol Hill
       in Washington, Tuesday, Dec. 12, 2023. (AP Photo/Susan Walsh)
       World & Nation

With Ukraine aid in peril, Zelensky pleads his case on Capitol Hill and at
the White House
       Dec. 12, 2023

Subscribers Are Reading

       For Subscribers

Stiiizy’s founder built an L.A. cannabis empire, while being landlord to
illegal dispensaries
       For Subscribers

These are the 101 best restaurants in Los Angeles
       For Subscribers

18 surprising gifts for people who cherish experiences over things

How Shohei Ohtani’s ‘unprecedented’ contract will help the Dodgers build
their roster

Uncontrolled chemical reactions fuel crises at L.A. County’s two largest
landfills

   Advertisement

Latest Politics


Goldberg: Trump’s day-one dictator comment is a sad symptom of populist
politics
       Dec. 12, 2023

Litman: Hunter Biden isn’t being accused of any new wrongdoing. So why was he
just indicted again?
       Dec. 11, 2023

Texas woman who sought court permission for abortion leaves state for the
procedure, attorneys say
       Dec. 11, 2023

Special counsel Jack Smith asks Supreme Court to rule quickly on whether
Trump can be prosecuted
       Dec. 11, 2023

Bakersfield Assemblyman Vince Fong will run to replace Kevin McCarthy in
Congress
       Dec. 11, 2023

   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   Advertisement

   Advertisement

   A California Times publication

   Subscribe for unlimited access
   Site Map

   Follow Us


   Copyright © 2023, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy
   | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal
   Information
