   #alternate alternate alternate U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian
   Disinformation: Pre-Empting It

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Technology


   Today’s Paper

   Technology|U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian Disinformation: Pre-Empting
   It
   -state-department-campaign.html

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
   You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your
   access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will
   load.

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian Disinformation: Pre-Empting It

   The State Department’s Global Engagement Center is taking the unusual
   step of disclosing a covert Russian operation when it is barely off the
   ground.

   People in coats in front of the Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra on a gray day.
   Thousands of believers gathered at the Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra in March. A
   recent article recycling disinformation about the Orthodox holy site
   was an example of an online Russian propaganda campaign in Central and
   South America.Credit...Laetitia Vancon for The New York Times
   Steven Lee Myers

   By Steven Lee Myers
   Published Oct. 26, 2023Updated Oct. 27, 2023
   Leer en español

   An article that appeared in August on an international news outlet,
   Pressenza, recycled a false Russian claim that the West was looting
   religious relics and art from a monastery in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv,

   The article stands out, U.S. officials said, not because of what it
   claimed — but because of its source and intended audience.

   State Department officials have linked the article to what they
   describe as a covert information operation to spread Russia propaganda
   in Central and South America by producing articles that appear to

   The operation is nascent, but the department’s Global Engagement Center
   is disclosing the influence campaign in hopes of blunting its effect in
   a region where Russia has sought to discredit the United States and
   erode international support for Ukraine.

   The center, which since 2017 has focused on combating propaganda and
   disinformation, routinely details Kremlin efforts, but identifying and
   trying to pre-empt a campaign when it is barely off the ground is a new
   tactic. It is one that reflects the realization that false narratives
   are harder to counter once they have already spread.

   “What we’re trying to do is expose Russia’s hidden hand,” James P.
   Rubin, the center’s coordinator, said in an interview in which he
   described the Russian effort in broad outlines.

   We are having trouble retrieving the article content.

   Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings.

   Thank you for your patience while we verify access. If you are in
   Reader mode please exit and log into your Times account,

   Thank you for your patience while we verify access.

   Already a subscriber? Log in.

   Want all of The Times? Subscribe.

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
