   #alternate alternate alternate alternate

CNN values your feedback

   1. How relevant is this ad to you?
   2. Did you encounter any technical issues?
   Video player was slow to load content [ ] Video content never loaded
   after ad [ ] Audio on ad was too loud [ ] Other issues [ ]
   Ad never loaded [ ] Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading [ ]
   Content moved around while ad loaded [ ] Ad was repetitive to ads I've
   seen previously [ ] Other issues [ ]

   Thank You!
   Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
   appreciated.
   Close


   Markets
   Tech
   Media
   Calculators
   Videos
   More
   Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos

   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   Live TV Audio

   Edition
   US
   International
   Arabic
   Español
   Edition

   Markets
   Tech
   Media
   Calculators
   Videos
   Follow CNN Business


   Markets
   DOW
   S&P 500
   NASDAQ

   Fear & Greed Index
   ----- is driving the US market

   Latest Market News
   Liz Magill resigns as UPenn president after disastrous hearing on
   antisemitism
   Elon Musk says conspiracy theorist Alex Jones may be restored on X
   Harvard president apologizes for her disastrous testimony at
   antisemitism hearing: ‘Words matter’
   Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later.

EU officials warn Google and YouTube about Hamas-Israel disinformation and
graphic content

   Brian Fung
   By Brian Fung, CNN
   2 minute read
   Published 2:54 PM EDT, Fri October 13, 2023
   Link Copied!

   The logo of the Youtube app
   The logo of the Youtube app
   Fabian Sommer/picture alliance/Getty Images
   Washington CNN  —

   The European Commission sent a warning letter Friday to Google and its
   subsidiary YouTube over disinformation and graphic content linked to
   the Hamas-Israel conflict, in the European Union’s latest effort to
   scrutinize Big Tech’s handling of the war.

   The letter from European Commissioner Thierry Breton, addressed to
   Google CEO Sundar Pichai and also sent to YouTube CEO Neal Mohan,
   reminded the company about its content moderation obligations under the
   EU’s Digital Services Act (DSA). Breton shared the letter on X.

   Breton highlighted legal requirements for Google to keep graphic
   content such as hostage videos away from underage users; to act swiftly
   when authorities flag content that violates European laws; and to
   mitigate disinformation.

   “This brings me to a second area of pressing concern: tackling
   disinformation in the context of elections, a priority which we
   personally discussed when we met in Brussels in May,” Breton wrote,
   referencing upcoming elections in a number of EU countries.

   It also warned of possible penalties if a future investigation were to
   find Google (GOOGL) is not complying with the DSA.

   Breton’s warning comes after similar letters he sent this week to X,
   the platform formerly known as Twitter, as well as Meta and TikTok.

   Unlike some of those previous letters, however, Breton’s letter to
   Google does not directly suggest the company has spread misleading or
   illegal content. And where Breton had asked some of Google’s
   counterparts to respond to his letter within 24 hours, Friday’s letter
   to Google merely requests a report “in a prompt, accurate and complete
   manner.”

   In response, YouTube spokeswoman Ivy Choi said the company has been
   actively working to take offensive videos down.

   “Following the devastating attacks on civilians in Israel and the
   escalating conflict in Israel and Gaza, our teams have removed
   thousands of harmful videos, and our systems continue to connect people
   with high-quality news and information,” Choi said. “Our teams are
   working around the clock to monitor for harmful footage and remain
   vigilant to take action quickly across YouTube, including videos,
   Shorts and livestreams.”

   YouTube previously told CNN its teams have removed thousands of videos
   since Hamas’ attacks on Israel began, and that it continues to monitor
   for hate speech, extremism, graphic imagery and other content that
   violates its policies.

   According to CNN’s own review of the platform, YouTube is also
   surfacing almost entirely videos from mainstream news organizations in
   searches related to the war.

   Related
   ill]

More from CNN Business

   SmileDirectClub atmosphere at the SmileDirectClub at TMGʼs Pre-Oscars
   lounge party at The Beverly Hilton Hotel on February 08, 2020 in
   Beverly Hills, California.
   Presley Ann/Getty Images
   Telehealth orthodontics company SmileDirectClub shuts down
   Dec 09, 2023
   Locked up merchandise at Walgreens pharmacy, Old Spice deodorant aisle,
   Queens, New York.
   Lindsey Nicholson/UCG/Universal Images Group/Getty Images
   One product, so many prices: Unit price, list price, ‘MSRP.’ Which one
   matters at the checkout?
   Dec 09, 2023

CNN Business Videos

   SMR Shoplifting
   Why retailers don’t do more to prevent shoplifting
   Dec 09, 2023
   Liz Magill, President of University of Pennsylvania, testifies before
   the House Education and Workforce Committee at the Rayburn House Office
   Building on December 05, 2023 in Washington, DC. The Committee held a
   hearing to investigate antisemitism on college campuses.
   Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
   ‘Disastrous testimony’: Critics call on UPenn’s president to resign
   after testimony on antisemitism
   Dec 09, 2023
   exp Jobs economy guest live 120803PSEG1 cnni biz_00012001.png
   U.S. economy adds 199,000 jobs in November
   Dec 08, 2023
   FST African voices changemakers 122
   How this skydiver aims to elevate air sports in South Africa
   Dec 08, 2023


   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   Live TV Audio


   Audio Live TV
   Follow CNN Business

   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in
   real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes.
   All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights
   reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of
   Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights
   reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to
   and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary
   Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks
   registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content
   and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market
   holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.

   Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About
   Newsletters Transcripts

   Reserved.
   CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
