   #alternate E.U. Law Sets the Stage for a Clash Over Disinformation

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   (BUTTON) Search & Section Navigation
   (BUTTON) Section Navigation
   (BUTTON) SEARCH
   Technology


   Today’s Paper

   Technology|E.U. Law Sets the Stage for a Clash Over Disinformation
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/27/technology/disinformation-law-europe
   an-union.html
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * 276

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

E.U. Law Sets the Stage for a Clash Over Disinformation

   The law, aimed at forcing social media giants to adopt new policies to
   curb harmful content, is expected to face blowback from Elon Musk, who
   owns X.
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * 276

   Robert Fico, displayed on a television, wears a blue suit as he debates
   his political opponent, who is also wearing a blue suit.
   Robert Fico, left, heads Slovakia’s SMER party. As the country heads
   toward an election on Saturday, it has been inundated with
   disinformation and other harmful content on social media
   sites.Credit...Jakub Gavlak/EPA, via Shutterstock
   Steven Lee Myers

   By Steven Lee Myers
   Sept. 27, 2023

   The Facebook page in Slovakia called Som z dediny, which means “I’m
   from the village,” trumpeted a debunked Russian claim last month that
   Ukraine’s president had secretly purchased a vacation home in Egypt
   under his mother-in-law’s name.

   A post on Telegram — later recycled on Instagram and other sites —
   suggested that a parliamentary candidate in the country’s coming
   election had died from a Covid vaccine, though he remains very much
   alive. A far-right leader posted on Facebook a photograph of refugees
   in Slovakia doctored to include an African man brandishing a machete.

   As Slovakia heads toward an election on Saturday, the country has been
   inundated with disinformation and other harmful content on social media
   sites. What is different now is a new European Union law that could
   force the world’s social media platforms to do more to fight it — or
   else face fines of up to 6 percent of a company’s revenue.

   The law, the Digital Services Act, is intended to force social media
   giants to adopt new policies and practices to address accusations that
   they routinely host — and, through their algorithms, popularize —
   corrosive content. If the measure is successful, as officials and
   experts hope, its effects could extend far beyond Europe, changing
   company policies in the United States and elsewhere.

   The law, years of painstaking bureaucracy in the making, reflects a
   growing alarm in European capitals that the unfettered flow of
   disinformation online — much of it fueled by Russia and other foreign
   adversaries — threatens to erode the democratic governance at the core
   of the European Union’s values.

   Europe’s effort sharply contrasts with the fight against disinformation
   in the United States, which has become mired in political and legal
   debates over what steps, if any, the government may take in shaping
   what the platforms allow on their sites.

   A federal appeals court ruled this month that the Biden administration
   had very likely violated the First Amendment guarantee of free speech
   by urging social media companies to remove content.

   Europe’s new law has already set the stage for a clash with Elon Musk,
   the owner of X, formerly known as Twitter. Mr. Musk withdrew from a
   voluntary code of conduct this year but must comply with the new law —
   at least within the European Union’s market of nearly 450 million
   people.

   “You can run but you can’t hide,” Thierry Breton, the European
   commissioner who oversees the bloc’s internal market, warned on the
   social network shortly after Mr. Musk’s withdrawal.

   Image
   Elon Musk, who owns X, formerly known as Twitter, withdrew from a
   voluntary code of conduct this year but must comply with the new E.U.
   law within the market of nearly 450 million people.Credit...Kenny
   Holston/The New York Times

   The election in Slovakia, the first in Europe since the law went into
   effect last month, will be an early test of the law’s impact. Other
   elections loom in Luxembourg and Poland next month, while the bloc’s 27
   member states will vote next year for members of the European
   Parliament in the face of what officials have described as sustained
   influence operations by Russia and others.

   While the law’s intentions are sweeping, enforcing the behavior of some
   of the world’s richest and most powerful companies remains a daunting
   challenge.

   That task is even more difficult for policing disinformation on social
   media, where anybody can post their views and perceptions of truth are
   often skewed by politics. Regulators would have to prove a platform had
   systemic problems that caused harm, an untested area of law that could
   ultimately lead to years of litigation.

   Enforcement of the European Union’s landmark data privacy law, known as
   the General Data Protection Regulation and adopted in 2018, has been
   slow and cumbersome, though regulators in May imposed the harshest
   penalty yet, fining Meta 1.2 billion euros, or $1.3 billion. (Meta has
   appealed.)

   Dominika Hajdu, the director of the Center for Democracy and Resilience
   at Globsec, a research organization in Slovakia’s capital, Bratislava,
   said only the prospect of fines would force platforms to do more in a
   unified but diverse market with many smaller nations and languages.

   “It actually requires dedicating quite a large sum of resources, you
   know, enlarging the teams that would be responsible for a given
   country,” she said. “It requires energy, staffing that the social media
   platforms will have to do for every country. And this is something they
   are reluctant to do unless there is a potential financial cost to it.”

   The law, as of now, applies to 19 sites with more than 45 million
   users, including the major social media companies, shopping sites like
   Apple and Amazon, and the search engines Google and Bing.

   The law defines broad categories of illegal or harmful content, not
   specific themes or topics. It obliges the companies to, among other
   things, provide greater protections to users, giving them more
   information about algorithms that recommend content and allowing them
   to opt out, and ending advertising targeted at children.

   It also requires them to submit independent audits and to make public
   decisions on removing content and other data — steps that experts say
   would help combat the problem.

   Mr. Breton, in a written reply to questions, said he had discussed the
   new law with executives from Meta, TikTok, Alphabet and X, and
   specifically mentioned the risks posed by Slovakia’s election.

   Image
   Thierry Breton, an E.U. commissioner, said he had discussed the new law
   with tech executives and specifically mentioned the risks posed by
   Slovakia’s election.Credit...Josh Edelson/Agence France-Presse — Getty
   Images

   “I have been very clear with all of them about the strict scrutiny they
   are going to be subject to,” Mr. Breton said.

   In what officials and experts described as a warning shot to the
   platforms, the European Commission also released a damning report that
   studied the spread of Russian disinformation on major social media
   sites in the year after Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022.

   “It clearly shows that tech companies’ efforts were insufficient,” said
   Felix Kartte, the E.U. director with Reset, the nonprofit research
   group that prepared the report.

   Engagements with Kremlin-aligned content since the war began rose
   marginally on Facebook and Instagram, both owned by Meta, but jumped
   nearly 90 percent on YouTube and more than doubled on TikTok.

   “Online platforms have supercharged the Kremlin’s ability to wage
   information war, and thereby caused new risks for public safety,
   fundamental rights and civic discourse in the European Union,” the
   report said.

   Meta and TikTok declined to comment on the enactment of the new law. X
   did not respond to a request. Ivy Choi, a spokeswoman for YouTube, said
   that the company was working closely with the Europeans and that the
   report’s findings were inconclusive. In June, YouTube removed 14
   channels that were part of “coordinated influence operations linked to
   Slovakia.”

   Nick Clegg, president of global affairs at Meta, said in a blog post
   last month that the company welcomed “greater clarity on the roles and
   responsibilities of online platforms” but also hinted at what some saw
   as the new law’s limits.

   “It is right to seek to hold large platforms like ours to account
   through things like reporting and auditing, rather than attempting to
   micromanage individual pieces of content,” he wrote.

   Slovakia, with fewer than six million people, has become a focus not
   just because of its election on Saturday. The country has become
   fertile ground for Russian influence because of historical ties. Now it
   faces what its president, Zuzana Caputova, described as a concerted
   disinformation campaign.

   Image
   A World War II monument outside Ladomirova, Slovakia. The country, with
   fewer than six million people, has become fertile ground for Russian
   influence. Credit...Akos Stiller for The New York Times

   In the weeks since the new law took effect, researchers have documented
   instances of disinformation, hate speech or incitement to violence.
   Many stem from pro-Kremlin accounts, but more are homegrown, according
   to Reset.

   They have included a vulgar threat on Instagram directed at a former
   defense minister, Jaroslav Nad. The false accusation on Facebook about
   the Ukrainian president’s buying luxury property in Egypt included a
   vitriolic comment typical of the hostility in Slovakia that the war has
   stoked among some. “He only needs a bullet in the head and the war will
   be over,” it said. Posts in Slovak that violate company policies,
   Reset’s researchers said, had been seen at least 530,000 times in two
   weeks after the law went into effect.

   Although Slovakia joined NATO in 2004 and has been a staunch supporter
   and arms supplier for Ukraine since the Russian invasion, the current
   front-runner is SMER, a party headed by Robert Fico, a former prime
   minister who now criticizes the alliance and punitive steps against
   Russia.

   Facebook shut down the account of one of SMER’s candidates, Lubos
   Blaha, in 2022 for spreading disinformation about Covid. Known for
   inflammatory comments about Europe, NATO and L.G.B.T.Q. issues, Mr.
   Blaha remains active in Telegram posts, which SMER reposts on its
   Facebook page, effectively circumventing the ban.

   Jan Zilinsky, a social scientist from Slovakia who studies the use of
   social media at the Technical University of Munich in Germany, said the
   law was a step in the right direction.

   “Content moderation is a hard problem, and platforms definitely have
   responsibilities,” he said, “but so do the political elites and
   candidates.”

   Steven Lee Myers covers misinformation for The Times. He has worked in
   Washington, Moscow, Baghdad and Beijing, where he contributed to the
   articles that won the Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2021. He is
   also the author of “The New Tsar: The Rise and Reign of Vladimir
   Putin.” More about Steven Lee Myers
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 1 of
   the New York edition with the headline: New E.U. Law Forces Big Tech To
   Police Truth. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
   276
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * 276

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation

     * © 2023 The New York Times Company

     * NYTCo
     * Contact Us
     * Accessibility
     * Work with us
     * Advertise
     * T Brand Studio
     * Your Ad Choices
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Service
     * Terms of Sale
     * Site Map
     * Canada
     * International
     * Help
     * Subscriptions

     * Manage Privacy Preferences

   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
