   #alternate Ruling Puts Social Media at Crossroads of Disinformation and
   Free Speech

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Politics


   Today’s Paper

   Politics|Ruling Puts Social Media at Crossroads of Disinformation and
   Free Speech
   rnment.html

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Ruling Puts Social Media at Crossroads of Disinformation and Free Speech

   The case, which could alter how the government battles disinformation,
   is a flashpoint in a broader effort by conservatives to document what
   they contend is a liberal conspiracy to silence their views.

   President Biden wearing a dark blue suit with a blue button-up shirt as
   he emerges in front of blue drapes.
   The government’s actions at the heart of the case were intended largely
   as public health measures.Credit...Haiyun Jiang for The New York Times

   By Michael D. Shear and David McCabe

   Reporting from Washington
   July 5, 2023

   Two months after President Biden took office, his top digital adviser
   emailed officials at Facebook urging them to do more to limit the
   spread of “vaccine hesitancy” on the social media platform.

   At the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, officials held
   “weekly sync” meetings with Facebook, once emailing the company 16
   “misinformation” posts. And in the summer of 2021, the surgeon
   general’s top aide repeatedly urged Google, Facebook and Twitter to do
   more to combat disinformation.

   The examples are among dozens of interactions described in a 155-page
   ruling by a federal judge in Louisiana, who on Tuesday imposed
   temporary but far-reaching limits on how members of Mr. Biden’s
   administration can engage with social media companies. The government
   appealed the ruling on Wednesday.

   The case is a flashpoint in the broader effort by conservatives to
   document what they contend is a liberal conspiracy by Democrats and
   tech company executives to silence their views. It taps into fury on
   the right about how social media companies have treated stories about
   the origins of Covid, the 2020 election and Hunter Biden, the
   president’s son.

   The final outcome could shape the future of First Amendment law in a
   rapidly changing media environment and alter how far the government can
   go in trying to prevent the spread of potentially dangerous
   information, particularly in an election or during emergencies like a
   pandemic.

   The government’s actions at the heart of the case were intended largely
   as public health measures. But Tuesday’s order instead viewed the issue
   through the filter of partisan culture wars — asking whether the
   government violated the First Amendment by unlawfully threatening the
   social media companies to censor speech that Mr. Biden’s administration
   found distasteful and potentially harmful to the public.

   Image
   Internal files released by Twitter last year document instances when
   the company rejected requests from the government. Credit...Jim
   Wilson/The New York Times

   The case was brought by two Republican attorneys general and five
   individuals who campaigned against masks, argued that vaccines did not
   work, opposed lockdowns and pushed drugs that medical experts denounced
   as ineffective, like ivermectin and hydroxychloroquine.

   And it is being overseen by Judge Terry A. Doughty, who was appointed
   by President Donald J. Trump and has previously expressed little
   skepticism about debunked claims from vaccine skeptics. In one previous
   case, Judge Doughty accepted as fact the claim that “Covid-19 vaccines
   do not prevent transmission of the disease.”

   Judge Doughty was confirmed by the Senate in 2018, by a vote of 98 to
   0, to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Louisiana,
   which has been seen in recent years as favorable to right-wing
   lawsuits. He ruled against the Biden administration’s vaccine mandate
   for Head Start preschool programs last year, saying that the “liberty
   interests of individuals mandated to take the Covid-19 vaccine outweigh
   any interest generated by the mandatory administration of vaccines.”

   The judge’s preliminary injunction is already having an impact. A
   previously scheduled meeting on threat identification on Thursday
   between State Department officials and social media executives was
   abruptly canceled by officials, according to two people familiar with
   the decision, which was reported earlier by The Washington Post.

   Administration officials said the Justice Department was examining the
   judge’s lengthy order to determine what activities must be halted when
   it comes to communicating their concerns about the spread of
   information.

   “The court’s order, which prevents the government from even speaking
   with tech companies about their content moderation policies, deals a
   huge blow to vital government efforts to harden U.S. democracy against
   threats of misinformation,” Leah Litman and Laurence H. Tribe wrote in
   the Just Security blog on Wednesday.

   “Each step in the reasoning of the decision manages to be more

   White House officials pledged to abide by the judge’s injunction, which
   will remain in place while the case moves forward unless a higher court
   reverses the order.

   “But we’re not going to apologize for promoting responsible actions to
   protect public health, safety and security when confronted by
   challenges like a deadly pandemic or foreign attacks on our elections,”
   said Sharon Yang, a White House spokeswoman. “We’re also not going to
   apologize for believing that social media platforms have a
   responsibility — a critical responsibility — to take account of the
   effects their platforms have on the American people.”

   The vast reach of the ruling could make it difficult for the
   administration to comply, several legal experts said.

   It allows the government to continue to notify the platforms about
   certain content, including posts concerning criminal activity, threats
   to national security and foreign election interference. But a subset of
   that content may also be protected by the First Amendment, the type of
   speech the judge’s order says the administration cannot discuss with
   the companies.

   And the line between the two could be blurry, said Genevieve Lakier, a
   professor at the University of Chicago Law School, who called the
   judge’s rulings “pretty significant departures from precedent.”

   “The result is this incredibly broad injunction that seems to prevent
   huge swaths of the executive branch from communicating with the
   platforms about speech,” she said.

   “Are government officials supposed to figure out for themselves what’s
   the serious enough threat that they can communicate about it to the
   platforms, or not serious and then they cannot?” she said. “How are
   they going to draw this line?”

   In his order, Judge Doughty described what he called a campaign by
   social media companies.

   In one instance, the judge wrote that aides to Jill Biden, the first
   lady, repeatedly cajoled Twitter executives to remove a video that was
   edited to make her seem profane toward a group of children. Twitter
   took the video down.

   In another case, Judge Doughty wrote that a top Biden official
   requested that Twitter remove a parody account linked to Finnegan
   Biden, Hunter Biden’s daughter and President Biden’s granddaughter. He
   wrote that 45 minutes after the request, Twitter suspended the account.

   After Vivek Murthy, the surgeon general, urged social media companies
   to “take action against misinformation superspreaders” in July 2021,
   the companies took down information posted by 17 accounts linked to the
   “Disinformation Dozen,” a group of people who frequently distributed
   false anti-vaccination claims.

   Image
   Vivek Murthy, the surgeon general, briefing reporters at the White
   House.Credit...Doug Mills/The New York Times

   Judge Doughty said the decision by the social media companies came
   after multiple emails, calls and meetings over weeks between Mr.
   Murthy’s top aides and senior executives at several of the social media
   companies.

   “The public and private pressure from the White House apparently had
   its intended effect,” the judge wrote. “All 12 members of the
   ‘Disinformation Dozen’ were censored, and pages, groups and accounts
   linked to the Disinformation Dozen were removed.”

   He also described regular meetings between the companies and the
   F.B.I.’s San Francisco field office, where he wrote that as many as
   eight agents were responsible for forwarding concerns about social
   media posts to seven tech companies several times a month.

   For several pages, Judge Doughty refers to the F.B.I.’s investigation
   into Hunter Biden’s laptop, suggesting a link between the government’s
   contacts with social media companies and the decision by some of the
   platforms to remove information about the story.

   “The F.B.I. additionally likely misled social media companies into
   believing the Hunter Biden laptop story was Russian disinformation,
   which resulted in suppression of the story a few weeks prior to the
   2020 presidential election,” the judge wrote in his order.

   Conservatives have already begun to seize on that kind of language to
   fuel their broader political allegations against Mr. Biden and
   Democrats. Representative Jim Jordan of Ohio, the Republican chairman
   industrial complex.”

   But they are charges that the president and his aides reject as wrong
   and misleading.

   Administration officials argued in the case that they did not
   unlawfully pressure the social media companies. Instead, they said the
   government had a responsibility to combat the spread of incorrect
   information through discussions with the companies.

   And they say — backed up by evidence from several of the social media
   companies — that the platforms have made independent decisions about
   what information to promote or delete, without any government control.

   Internal files released by Twitter last year document instances when
   the company rejected requests from the government.

   But in Tuesday’s ruling, Judge Doughty found that efforts by the
   administration amounted to coercion of the platforms that violated the
   First Amendment by essentially deputizing private companies on behalf

   The judge said that pressure went beyond aggressively encouraging the
   platforms to take down posts — which, he said, would itself violate the
   First Amendment — and amounted to coercion of some of the biggest
   companies in America by the “most powerful office in the world.”

   Jeff Kosseff, an associate professor of cybersecurity law at the United
   States Naval Academy, said the government would have to figure out how
   widely Judge Doughty’s prohibitions should be applied.

   “The bigger issue for clarity is who does this actually apply to — and
   does it apply to them in their personal capacity, their official
   capacity or both,” he said. “Does he want an office assistant at the
   C.D.C. to not be able to voice his views on his own time?”

   Michael D. Shear is a veteran White House correspondent and two-time
   Pulitzer Prize winner who was a member of the team that won the Public
   Service Medal for Covid coverage in 2020. He is the co-author of
   “Border Wars: Inside Trump's Assault on Immigration.” More about
   Michael D. Shear

   David McCabe covers tech policy. He joined The Times from Axios in
   2019. More about David McCabe
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 1 of
   the New York edition with the headline: Disinformation Vs. Free Speech:
   A New Frontier. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
   1119

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
