   #alternate China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow Disinformation, U.S.
   Says

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Technology


   Today’s Paper

   Technology|China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow Disinformation, U.S.
   Says
   tate-department.html

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
   You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your
   access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will
   load.

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow Disinformation, U.S. Says

   The accusations reflect worry in Washington that China’s information

   The exterior wall of a beige office building with a blue sign outside
   reading “Department of State.”
   The State Department reports that China is using various methods,
   including buying stakes in media organizations and using social media,
   to spread propaganda.Credit...Joshua Roberts/Reuters
   Steven Lee Myers

   By Steven Lee Myers
   Sept. 28, 2023

   The State Department accused China on Thursday of using “deceptive and
   coercive methods” to shape the global information environment, by
   acquiring stakes in foreign newspapers and television networks, using
   major social media platforms to promote its views and exerting pressure
   Beijing.

   The accusations, detailed in a report by the department’s Global
   Engagement Center, reflect worry in Washington that China’s information
   to democratic principles around the world by promoting “digital
   authoritarianism.”

   China not only pushes its own propaganda, the report said, but exports
   digital surveillance tools to police information and people online.
   Although many of the tactics detailed are not new, the report warned
   that they could “lead nations to make decisions that subordinate their
   economic and security interests to Beijing.”

   “Every country has the right and every right to tell its story to the
   world, but a nation’s narrative should be facts, and it should rise or
   fall on its own merits,” James P. Rubin, the coordinator of the Global
   Engagement Center, said at a briefing. Referring to the People’s
   Republic of China, he went on: “By contrast, the P.R.C. advances
   coercive techniques and increasingly outright lies.”

   The report echoes a raft of recent studies detailing the growing — and
   shifting — scope of China’s information campaigns. It came a day after
   gained access to the email accounts of Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo
   and other officials this year stole 60,000 emails from the State
   Department alone.

   According to the State Department’s report released on Thursday,
   China’s efforts have evolved from a primary focus on promoting or
   defending the country’s political views on issues like Taiwan and Hong
   Kong to one that aims to sow disinformation to discredit the United
   States at home and abroad.

   We are having trouble retrieving the article content.

   Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings.

   Thank you for your patience while we verify access. If you are in
   Reader mode please exit and log into your Times account,

   Thank you for your patience while we verify access.

   Already a subscriber? Log in.

   Want all of The Times? Subscribe.

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
