   #VOA - Top Stories [RSS]


   analytics

Accessibility links


   please wait

Print Options:



   Link has been copied to clipboard

       U.S. News All About America Silicon Valley & Technology Immigration
       Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central
       Asia

Follow Us

   Languages
   site logo site logo
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next

   Fact Checks

X Users Falsely Claim Video of 2017 Attack on Philippines Church Shows Hamas
Attack in Gaza

   October 26, 2023 3:51 PM

   Screenshot of a video posted to X, which shows ISIS-affiliated
   militants destroying a Catholic Church in Marawi, Philippines in 2017.
   Some X users falsely claimed it was from Gaza. Screenshot of a video
   posted to X, which shows ISIS-affiliated militants destroying a
   Catholic Church in Marawi, Philippines in 2017. Some X users falsely
   claimed it was from Gaza.

   Share


   X Users Falsely Claim Video of 2017 Attack on Philippines Church Shows
   Hamas Attack in Gaza

   share

   MithilaWaala MithilaWaala

MithilaWaala

   Blue-checked X user

   “#HamasTerrorists destroying a Baptist Church in #Gaza city and kicking
   the statue of Jesus, is this their fight to reclaim their land or is it
   Jihad against every other religion in this world, ask yourselves !!”
   Source: X, October 23, 2023
   False

   Blue-checked users with an active subscription to X Premium continue to
   use the social media platform to spread disinformation about the
   Israel-Hamas conflict.

   Their tactics include recycling old footage and misattributing it
   either to the Israeli armed forces or to Hamas and Palestinians,
   depending on loyalties. A viral video of a 2017 church attack in the
   Philippines is one such example.

   More than 300 people died in the fight between the Philippines security
   forces and Maute militants affiliated with the Islamic State terrorist
   group, who seized the southern city of Marawi in May 2017.

   A blue-checked X user with the handle MithilaWaala shared a clip of
   Maute gunmen attacking the church in Marawi with the following false
   commentary:

   “#HamasTerrorists destroying a Baptist Church in #Gaza city and kicking
   the statue of Jesus, is this their fight to reclaim their land or is it
   Jihad against every other religion in this world, ask yourselves !!”

   Others shared the same footage with a similar message.

   Another X user claimed the footage showed Israel Defense Forces
   desecrating a church in Gaza.

   Kanthan2030, a verified X user with 110,100 followers who regularly
   spreads pro-Russia disinformation, quoted another post with the same
   footage, falsely claiming it showed an attack by Syrian rebels:

   “Ignorance in US/EU is shocking. Terrorists in the video below were the
   ‘moderate rebels’ armed, trained & funded by US/NATO. These jihadists
   were used to attack Syrian President Assad, who is loved by Christians
   in Syria. So, don’t use this video to justify bombing of Gaza.”

   Kanthan2030 quoted RadioGenoa, a blue-checked user with over 292,000
   followers. RadioGenoa simply wrote: “They hate us.”

   That post received 7 million views and 30,000 likes.

   While RadioGenoa never claimed the footage was from Gaza, a community
   note clarified that the footage actually showed an Islamic State
   affiliate destroying a church during the 2017 Siege of Marawi in the
   Philippines province of Lanao del Sur.

   The clip shared by MithilaWaala did not include a community note, but
   rather a message with a hyperlink from X that reads: “Stay informed.
   This media is presented out of context. Find out more.”
   Screenshot of a video posted to X by MithilaWaala, a blue-checked X
   user, who falsely claimed a 2017 video showing ISIS-affiliated
   militants destroying a Catholic Church in Marawi, Philippines, is
   actually from Gaza.
   Screenshot of a video posted to X by MithilaWaala, a blue-checked X
   user, who falsely claimed a 2017 video showing ISIS-affiliated
   militants destroying a Catholic Church in Marawi, Philippines, is
   actually from Gaza.

   However, the hyperlink outlines X’s synthetic and manipulated media
   policy, while no further context for the footage posted by MithilaWaala
   is provided.

   X says that under its policy, it can remove “media that is shared in a
   deceptive manner or with false context” which can result in “widespread
   confusion on public issues, impact public safety, or cause serious
   harm.”

   But MithilaWaala’s post was not removed, despite posting footage in a
   deceptive manner with false context.

   These attempts by premium X subscribers to pass off old footage as
   Israel-Hamas war footage fit into a broader disinformation pattern.

   A recent study by NewsGuard, an information analysis company, found
   that blue-checked, “verified” X users had accounted for 74 percent of
   the platform’s most viral false or unsubstantiated claims during the
   first week of the Israel-Hamas War, which started on October 7.

   Polygraph.info has documented other such examples here and here.

   NewsGuard said that community notes “fail to debunk misinformation
   almost 70 percent of the time.”

   Subscribers to X Premium have a financial incentive to spread posts
   that go viral, including disinformation. That’s because blue-checked
   users are eligible for ad revenue sharing if they have 500 followers
   and have generated five million impressions in the preceding three
   months.

   Separately, a European Commission report found that the engagement of
   pro-Kremlin accounts spreading disinformation on X, particularly about
   Ukraine, had grown by 36 percent “after CEO Elon Musk decided to lift
   mitigation measures on Kremlin-backed accounts.”

   In September, European Commission Vice President Vera Jourova called X
   “the platform with the largest ratio of mis- or disinformation posts.”


Polygraph.info
       Polygraph.info is a fact-checking website produced by Voice of
       America (VOA). ​The website serves as a resource for verifying the
       increasing volume of disinformation and misinformation being
       distributed and shared globally.
       FOLLOW Subscribe

   Back to top


   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
