

   News


   Finance


     News

     Markets

     Sectors

     Screeners

     Personal finance

     Videos


     Finance Plus


     Crypto

     Industries

   Sports



     Daily Fantasy

     NFL


     MLB


     NBA


     NHL


     Soccer


     College football


     Show all


   Entertainment


   Life



     Parenting


     Style and beauty


     Horoscopes

     Shopping


     Autos

   About our ads Advertising Careers

   Yahoo News

   Search query ____________________


   Mail
   Sign in

   Advertisement

   Close this content
   The Conversation en Español The Conversation en Español

Disinformation is part and parcel of social media's business model, new
research shows

   Carlos Diaz Ruiz, Assistant Professor, Hanken School of Economics
   November 23, 2023 at 9:14 AM·4 min read
   <a
   href="https://www.shutterstock.com/es/image-photo/two-cute-beautiful-yo
   ung-women-friends-295469396" rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank"
   data-ylk="slk:fizkes/Shutterstock;elm:context_link;itc:0" class="link
   fizkes/Shutterstock

   Deceptive online content is big business. The digital advertising
   market is now worth €625 billion, and their business model is simple:
   more clicks, views or engagement means more money from advertisers.
   Incendiary, shocking content – whether it is true or not – is an easy
   way to get our attention, which means advertisers can end up funding
   fake news and hate speech.

   This is not an accident – social media platforms know they profit from
   the spread of disinformation, while advertisers turn a blind eye.

   Disinformation aims to confuse, paralyse and polarise society at large
   for political, military, or commercial purposes through orchestrated
   campaigns to strategically spread deceptive or manipulative media
   content. On social media, disinformation tools include bots, deep
   fakes, fake news and conspiracy theories.

   Up to now, most disinformation research has focused on how the system
   is abused by national interests and authoritarian leaders. My research
   shows that disinformation is, in fact, a likely and predictable outcome

A business model that rewards engagement

   Social media platforms were not designed to convey information, but
   rather for entertainment. They were designed to identify things like
   the most amusing cat videos, and then recommend them to people who
   would share them. However, marketing researchers have since found that
   content that evokes strong positive emotions like awe, or negative
   emotions like anger and anxiety, is more likely to go viral. Platforms
   have taken note of this and built it into their business models.

   The business model of social media works as follows. Platforms provide
   us with free “infotainment” (information and entertainment), and do
   everything in their power to keep us engaged. While we consume the
   content, the platform harvests our data, which is then processed into
   predictive analytics – the information that is used to target adverts.
   Advertisers pay for these analytics to power their targeted advertising
   campaigns.

   There is a financial incentive for most platforms to maximise online
   engagement, which means that any content, factual or not, that receives
   clicks, likes and comments is highly valued. Influencers who share
   incendiary, controversial content can become wealthy as a result, often
   leading others to replicate their style. Therefore, it is unsurprising
   that many creators publish confrontational, simplistic and emotionally
   charged content with us-against-them narratives.

   Stoking social anxieties and fuelling tribalism is also how conspiracy
   theories circulate.

   Leer más: I watched hundreds of flat-Earth videos to learn how
   conspiracy theories spread – and what it could mean for fighting
   disinformation

Digital marketing and disinformation

   Digital marketing is a commercial practice by which firms create value
   influencers, pay-per-click adverts, affiliate programs, and ordinary
   advertising. Brands hire digital marketing agencies and firms known as
   ad tech, which operate the software that makes adverts follow us around
   the internet.

   ad tech firms operate without accountability or oversight, so when a
   brand pays an ad tech firm to place their ads, they also outsource
   their responsibility. A brand might therefore unknowingly end up
   funding disinformation about major global events like the
   Russia-Ukraine war and the Israel-Palestine war. Even after being
   presented with evidence, brands remain silent.

   Influencers play an especially important role in this cutthroat digital
   market. Driven by the promise of advertising money they seek engagement
   at any cost, even going as far as promoting content that undermines
   democratic institutions. If an influencer has to be demonetised or
   banned for publishing hate speech it makes no difference to the
   platform, because the platforms get to keep the advertising revenue.

Democratic governance of digital platforms

   Most brands do not want to be associated with hate speech and bot
   farms, but they are. It is easy to look the other way in such a
   technically complicated market, but marketers have a responsibility.
   Brands become complicit by remaining silent.

   Policymakers and activists are pushing to reform digital platforms to
   counter disinformation. Most efforts focus on content moderation and
   fact checking, but little attention is being paid to reforming the
   digital advertising market.

   Platforms and ad tech firms must work to reform a market that profits
   from disinformation, though it appears they are often unwilling or
   unable to lead the way.

   Brand managers can use their budgets to hold platforms accountable,
   especially if they act in large numbers, as demonstrated by the recent
   X (formerly known as Twitter) ad boycott following Elon Musk’s
   antisemitic remarks. If all else fails, policymakers must step in to
   ensure that the profits of these tech giants do not come at the cost of

   Recommended Stories

X lawsuit accuses Media Matters of running a campaign to drive advertisers
away

       X has filed a lawsuit against media watchdog group Media Matters
       appearing next to antisemitic content.
       22d ago

Apple, Disney, Comcast among X advertisers pausing spending after Musk
endorsed antisemitic post

       After X owner Elon Musk amplified antisemitic conspiracy theories
       their spending on the platform formerly known as Twitter. Per
       research from the Center for Countering Digital Hate, X has failed
       to moderate hate speech on its platform that promotes antisemitic
       conspiracies, praises Hitler and dehumanizes Muslims and
       Palestinians. In a particularly egregious incident last week, Musk
       replied, "You have said the actual truth" to a post that echoed the
       same violent antisemitic conspiracy theory that was espoused by the
       killer from the 2018 Tree of Life synagogue attack.
       23d ago

British International Investment backs India's Aye Finance in $37M funding

       Aye Finance, an Indian startup that offers its digital lending
       platform to small firms, has raised $37.18 million in a fresh
       funding round led by British International Investment, as it looks
       to continue to help micro enterprises grow their businesses and
       employees expand their incomes. The all-equity Series F round,
       which does not involve any secondary transactions and takes Aye's
       total fundraising to nearly $200 million, involves the
       participation of Waterfield Fund of Funds and the startup's
       existing investor A91 Partners. Founded in 2014, Aye — means "Yes"
       in English and "Income" in Hindi — provides business loans in the
       form of mortgage, hypothecation, and term credit to underserved
       micro enterprises that find it challenging to secure their working
       capital requirements from traditional lenders, including banks,
       with an average ticket size of $1,800.
       3h ago

Ekeler's Edge: Year of the backup QB? Ekeler reacts to Herbert's injury

       There's no way around it: Losing Justin Herbert for the season
       stinks for fantasy, reality and everything in between. On a
       emotionally loaded episode of 'Ekeler's Edge' the L.A. RB opens up
       to Matt Harmon about what Herbert means to him as teammate and a
       franchise QB after he sustained a season ending injury in Week 14.
       Ekeler and Harmon also discuss if this year has become 'the year of
       the backup QB' in the NFL given all the injuries at the position.
       3h ago

Patriots have reportedly already decided to move on from Bill Belichick in
2024

       This season, like most after Tom Brady left New England, has been
       rough for the Patriots.
       3h ago

Xbox 2023 year-in-review recap stacks you up against other players

       Xbox's year-in-review recaps for 2023 are now available for
       viewing.
       3h ago

Shohei Ohtani free agency: Giants president says team was presented same deal
as Dodgers

       Ohtani simply preferred the Dodgers.
       7h ago

FCC issues final denial of $885M Starlink subsidy

       The FCC has made a final denial of Starlink's application for $885
       million in public funds to expand its orbital communications
       infrastructure to cover parts of rural America, saying the company
       "failed to demonstrate that it could deliver the promised service."
       As previously reported, the money in question was part of the Rural
       Digital Opportunity Fund, a multibillion-dollar program to
       subsidize the rollout of internet service in places where private
       companies have previously decided it’s too expensive or distant to
       do so. The $885 million was first set aside for Starlink in 2020,
       corresponding to the company's bid on how much connectivity it
       could provide, at what cost and to which regions.
       8h ago

Juan Soto talks extension negotiations with Yankees: 'They know ... who to
talk to'

       Is Juan Soto one-and-done in New York, or will he sign an
       extension?
       6h ago

Get smart: Score an Oprah-approved Echo Show 15 on rare sale — it's nearly
30% off

       Stay on-task and entertained with this Alexa hub, loved by the
       'Queen of All Media' herself: 'It almost looks like a piece of
       art,' she said.
       9h ago

The newest Echo Show 5 is like a 'Jetsons-style assistant' — and it's down to
$40, a record-low

       'I'm convinced it's secretly an alien from a more advanced,
       hilariously efficient planet,' said one of 10,000 five-star fans —
       save 55%.
       9h ago

How Sam Bankman-Fried's 2023 meltdown put the crypto world on trial

       What happened to Sam Bankman-Fried this year was important because
       he was the face of crypto's rise and fall. The implications of the
       case will likely be felt for years to come.
       10h ago

Feds want anti-drunk-driving tech in cars — here's what stands in the way

       NHTSA is now asking for help determining what technologies should
       be built into cars to help mitigate or prevent it outright -- in
       part because the agency says there are no commercially available
       found none that are commercially available that can properly handle
       identifying alcohol impairment. Driver monitoring isn't the only
       9h ago

Fed is expected to hold rates steady Wednesday. Wall Street will be listening
for any hints of cuts.

       The Fed is expected to hold rates steady this week. Wall Street
       will be watching for any signs that the most aggressive rate-hiking
       campaign since the 1980s is now over.
       9h ago

MLB free agency 2023 tracker: Giants reportedly sign Korean OF Jung Hoo Lee
to 6-year deal

       Follow along as contracts are signed and rosters for 2024 are
       assembled.
       8h ago

I tried the Egofit under-desk treadmill — it's a great way to walk to work

       This compact machine can help you add a lot more steps to your
       workday.
       11h ago

PlayStation’s 2023 Wrap-Up recaps your year in gaming

       Sony’s 2023 Wrap-Up is now available. The recap reflects on your
       PS5 or PS4 gaming habits from the past year. The new version will
       sum up your most-played games, tally your total hours and assign an
       algorithmic “gaming style.”
       13h ago

Best tech gifts and gadgets to impress loved ones without breaking the bank

       Tile, Kindle, Sony, Ember and more: These 15 awesome gadgets are
       sure to impress this 2023 holiday season.
       9h ago

Tony Finau's '#imnotleaving' a small but important victory for the PGA Tour

       Despite rumors, Tony Finau apparently won't be joining LIV Golf in
       the wake of Jon Rahm's momentous defection.
       9h ago

Steelers' Mike Tomlin adjusts stance on WR George Pickens' emotions: 'It's a
problem'

       Tomlin called Pickens' frustrations a "non-issue" last month.
       9h ago

   Yahoo news


   Follow us on

   Download our app
   Download app from appStore Download app from googlePlay

   nformation-part-parcel-social-medias-081424371.html&c14=-1]
