   sia] Skip to main contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation

   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]

   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian

   ShowMoreShow More
       google-search
       Search










   The European commissioner Věra Jourová
   The European commissioner Věra Jourová: ‘The Russian state has engaged
   in the war of ideas to pollute our information space with half truth.’
   Photograph: Olivier Hoslet/EPA
   The European commissioner Věra Jourová: ‘The Russian state has engaged
   in the war of ideas to pollute our information space with half truth.’
   Photograph: Olivier Hoslet/EPA
   X
   This article is more than 2 months old

EU warns Elon Musk after Twitter found to have highest rate of disinformation

   This article is more than 2 months old

   Musk is told his platform, now known as X, must comply with new laws
   designed to combat fake news and Russian propaganda


   Lisa O'Carroll in Brussels
   @lisaocarroll
   Tue 26 Sep 2023 13.26 CESTFirst published on Tue 26 Sep 2023 12.29 CEST

   The EU has issued a warning to Elon Musk to comply with sweeping new
   laws on fake news and Russian propaganda, after X – formerly known as
   Twitter – was found to have the highest ratio of disinformation posts

   The report analysed the ratio of disinformation for a new report laying
   bare for the first time the scale of fake news on social media across
   the EU, with millions of fake accounts removed by TikTok and LinkedIn.

   Facebook was the second worst offender, according to the first ever
   report recording posts that will be deemed illegal across the EU under
   the Digital Services Act (DSA), which came into force in August.

   Nevertheless, Facebook and other tech giants, including Google, TikTok
   and Microsoft, have signed up to the code of practice the EU drew up to
   ensure they could get ready in time to operate within the confines of
   the new laws.

   Twitter left the code of practice but it is obliged under the new law
   to comply with the rules or face a ban across the EU.

   “Mr Musk knows he is not off the hook by leaving the code of practice,”
   said the European commissioner Věra Jourová, who is responsible for the
   implementation of the new anti-disinformation code.

   “There are obligations under the hard law. So my message for Twitter/X
   is you have to comply. We will be watching what you do.”

   “X, formerly Twitter … is the platform with the largest ratio of
   mis/disinformation followed by Facebook,” she told reporters.

   The 200-page report is an account of the work the large platforms have
   done in the first six months of 2023 to prepare for compliance with the
   new law and lifts the lid on the behind-the-scenes efforts made by
   Facebook and others to crack down on Russian propaganda, hate speech
   and other disinformation.

   “The Russian state has engaged in the war of ideas to pollute our
   information space with half truth and lies to create a false image that
   democracy is no better than autocracy,” said Jourová.

   LinkedIn’s owner, Microsoft, stopped 6.7m fake accounts being created
   and removed 24,000 pieces of fake content

   YouTube, owned by Google, told the EU it had removed more than “400
   channels involved in coordinated influence operations linked to the
   Russian-state sponsored Internet Research Agency”.

   Tiktok removed almost 6m fake accounts and 410 unverifiable adverts.

   Google removed advertising from almost 300 sites linked to
   “state-funded propaganda sites” and rejected more than 140,000
   political advertisers for “failing identity verification processes”.

   Meta, the report says, expanded its fact-checking to 26 partners
   covering 22 languages in the EU, now also including Czech and Slovak.

   It reported that 37% of users also cancelled sharing when notified of
   fake news, a sign the EU says of the value consumers put on labelling
   disinformation.

   The EU is particularly concerned about continued Russian propaganda in
   social media before key elections in Slovakia on Sunday and in Poland

   TikTok, which was recently fined €345m (£300m) for breaching data
   protection rules concerning children, is also working to comply with
   the DSA.
   skip past newsletter promotion

   Sign up to This is Europe
   Free weekly newsletter

   The most pressing stories and debates for Europeans – from identity to
   economics to the environment
   Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online
   ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see
   the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

   after newsletter promotion

   Its factchecks cover Russian, Ukrainian and 17 other languages and a
   new partnership with the Reuters news agency.

   The report said that through this network it checked 832 videos related
   to the war in Ukraine of which 211 were removed.

   Microsoft, another participant in the code of practice, told the EU it
   had either promoted information or downgraded questionable information
   in relation to 800,000 search queries about the war in Ukraine.

   Jourová said the report was evidence that Russia was engaged in a “war
   across the large platforms.
   What makes Elon Musk tick? I spent months following the same people as
   him to find out who fuels his curious worldview
   Read more

   She said the Kremlin had chosen Slovakia more than Poland as “fertile
   soil” for division and interference with democracy.

   She said one of her main messages to the large platforms was to be
   aware of elections, including those for the European parliament next
   year, and the “risk of disinformation”.

   She said the Kremlin propaganda was “a multimillion-euro weapon of mass
   manipulation aimed both internally at the Russians as well as Europeans
   and the rest of the world. And we must address this. The very large
   platforms must address this risk.”

   The war in Ukraine was the most frequent topic for propaganda but the
   platforms also reported hate speech in relation to migration, LBGTQ+
   communities and the climate crisis.

   “I think it is one of the advantages of disinformation, is that they
   are so predictable,” said Jourová, making it easier for factcheckers to
   find.

   On Twitter, she said “disinformation actors were found to have
   significantly more followers than their non-disinformation counterparts
   and tend to have joined the platform more recently than
   non-disinformation users”.
   Explore more on these topics


   Reuse this content

More on this story


More on this story


Elon Musk says X will reinstate Alex Jones’s account after poll of users
       3d ago

Elon Musk says Disney boss should be ‘fired immediately’ amid X ad boycott
       5d ago

Can Elon Musk stop X going to the wall after tirade at advertisers?
       30 Nov 2023

'See how Earth responds': Elon Musk's bizarre tirade against fleeing
advertisers – video
       30 Nov 2023

Elon Musk hurls defiant, profanity-laced retort at fleeing advertisers
       30 Nov 2023

Paris mayor quits X, calling social media site a ‘gigantic global sewer’
       27 Nov 2023

Elon Musk to meet Israeli president amid antisemitism accusations on X
       26 Nov 2023

Neil Young boycotts X over antisemitic Elon Musk tweet
       21 Nov 2023

X sues watchdog group Media Matters after report on ads next to Nazi posts
       21 Nov 2023

Most viewed

Most viewed



   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian
   every morning
   Sign up for our email



   Back to top
   rights reserved. (dcr)
