   #alternate alternate alternate alternate

CNN values your feedback

   1. How relevant is this ad to you?
   2. Did you encounter any technical issues?
   Video player was slow to load content [ ] Video content never loaded
   after ad [ ] Audio on ad was too loud [ ] Other issues [ ]
   Ad never loaded [ ] Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading [ ]
   Content moved around while ad loaded [ ] Ad was repetitive to ads I've
   seen previously [ ] Other issues [ ]

   Thank You!
   Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
   appreciated.
   Close

   World

   Africa
   Americas
   Asia
   Australia
   China
   Europe
   India
   Middle East
   United Kingdom
   More
   Africa Americas Asia Australia China Europe India Middle East United
   Kingdom

   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   Live TV Audio

   Edition
   US
   International
   Arabic
   Español
   Edition

   Africa
   Americas
   Asia
   Australia
   China
   Europe
   India
   Middle East
   United Kingdom
   Follow CNN



US warns of Chinese disinformation. China says that’s disinformation

   By Mengchen Zhang, Teele Rebane and Heather Chen, CNN
   2 minute read
   Published 3:20 AM EDT, Sun October 1, 2023
   Link Copied!

   The Ministry of Foreign Affairs building in Beijing on July 26, 2023.
   The Ministry of Foreign Affairs building in Beijing on July 26, 2023.
   Greg Baker/AFP/Getty Images/FILE
   CNN  —

   A US State Department report that accuses the Chinese government of
   expanding disinformation efforts is “in itself disinformation,”
   Beijing’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs claimed Saturday.

   The ministry shot back after the State Department issued a striking
   report this week in which it accused the Chinese government of
   expanding efforts to control information and to disseminate propaganda
   and disinformation that promotes “digital authoritarianism” in China
   and around the world.

   The US report, issued by the Global Engagement Center on Thursday,
   alleged that China spends billions of dollars a year on foreign
   information manipulation and warned that Chinese leader Xi Jinping had
   “significantly expanded” efforts to “shape the global information
   environment.”

   It also underlined US concerns about China as a main military
   competitor and key rival in the battle over ideas and global
   disinformation.
   The Chinese flag flutters in Tiananmen Square, after the sacking of
   politician Bo Xilai from the countries powerful Politburo, in Beijing
   the sacking of politician Bo Xilai from the countries powerful
   Politburo, in Beijing on April 11, 2012.
   AFP/Getty Images

   US issues stark warning about China's information efforts

   Two days later, China hit back.

   “The relevant center of the US State Department which concocted the
   report is engaged in propaganda and infiltration in the name of ‘global
   engagement’ – it is a source of disinformation and the command center

   Referring to wars in Iraq and Syria as well as US reports alleging
   human rights abuses in China’s Xinjiang as examples, the ministry
   claimed that the US is “an ‘empire of lies’ through and through.”

   “No matter how the US tries to pin the label of ‘disinformation’ on
   through the US’s ugly attempt to perpetuate its supremacy by weaving
   lies into ‘emperor’s new clothes’ and smearing others,” the ministry
   said.

   Related



   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   Live TV Audio


   World
   Audio Live TV
   Follow CNN

   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About
   Newsletters Transcripts

   Reserved.
   CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
