   e%2CJohn+Lennon%2CMusic%2CCulture%2CWorld+news] Skip to main
   contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation

   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]

   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian

   ShowMoreShow More
       google-search
       Search










   John Lennon on holiday in Greece in 1967.
   John Lennon on holiday in Greece in 1967. Photograph: Central
   Press/Getty Images
   John Lennon on holiday in Greece in 1967. Photograph: Central
   Press/Getty Images
   The ObserverThe Beatles

Were the Beatles used as propaganda by Greece’s military rulers?

   Junta hoped group’s devotion to the country would help offset global
   condemnation, says veteran journalist


   Helena Smith in Athens
   Sat 30 Sep 2023 16.00 CESTLast modified on Tue 28 Nov 2023 03.53 CET

   In the summer of love, on a hot July day, John Lennon was sitting by a
   lake in central Greece. The Beatles were on their way to Delphi, via
   the mountain village of Arachova. Lennon, who was splayed across the
   grass next to his first wife, Cynthia, and their young son, Julian,
   appeared to be lost in thought.

   The rest of the band were lapping up the rays, knocking back beers and
   splashing about in the lake. Labis Tsirigotakis, then a cub reporter on
   the Greek daily, To Vima, realised this was his big chance. Sensing a
   scoop, he moved closer. “John, can I ask you a few questions?” he
   asked.

   “No problem, I’m happy to meet you,” came the response as Lennon,
   looking up from his Orwell novel, contemplated Tsirigotakis’ next
   question on his “impressions of Greece”.

   What followed was an outburst so impassioned it took the reporter
   aback: “Unfortunately the social inequalities in England are so big it
   wounds me psychologically. Greece is a wonderful country, fantastic
   climate, great people … and that’s why we are seriously thinking of
   buying a small Greek island and setting up our own hippy commune where
   we could live undisturbed for half of the year.”

   In 1967 it was extraordinary that the Beatles were in Greece at all.
   Three months earlier a group of colonels had seized power . One of the
   regime’s first acts was to ban the miniskirt – and anything else that
   to the rightwing junior army officers smacked of decadence and
   immorality. Top of the list were hippies, who were seen as “drug
   addicts, sex maniacs and thieves”.

   And yet, officials at EOT, the national tourist board – like the media
   tightly controlled by the junta – were keen to use the Beatles’ visit
   to offset international isolation spurred by reports of widespread
   torture and persecution of political opponents. “The regime clearly saw
   them as celebrities who could serve a purpose,” said Tsirigotakis,
   recalling the cat-and-mouse games he and a photographer were forced to
   play with EOT minders tasked with acquiring the perfect propaganda
   snap.

   It appeared to have been lost on the dictators, who would rule with an
   iron hand for the next seven years, that at the height of the
   flower-power 60s Britain’s most famous band were not only viscerally
   Greece, for all of them, would be recalled as the backdrop for a series

   More than five decades later, the episode related in the veteran
   journalist’s recently published memoirs has given pause for thought to
   scholars who study the Beatles. Last month the University of
   Liverpool’s Journal of Beatles Studies ran an 8,000-word essay titled
   “Used as propaganda”: The Beatles’ Greek island plans and international
   politics. Its author, Jonathan Knott, is persuaded, after several years
   escape the pressures of recognition and fame, Greek officials were
   equally intent on exploiting that desire to encourage tourism.
   The Beatles in the village of Arachova in 1967 with Greek folk singers.
   From left, Ringo Starr, George Harrison, two unamed musicians, John
   Lennon and Paul McCartney.
   The Beatles in the village of Arachova in 1967 with Greek folk singers.
   From left, Ringo Starr, George Harrison, two unamed musicians, John
   Lennon and Paul McCartney. Photograph: AP

   Weeks earlier, protests against the military government, which had
   banished thousands of ex-communists to Aegean island labour camps, had
   erupted in London. A newspaper reported on protesters carrying placards
   demanding “democracy in Greece” as they greeted the arrival of guests
   at a Cafe Royal reception of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of
   Athens. Its Greek host had made “an impassioned plea to British
   tourists to come to Greece”.

   “The Greek press at the time was heavily censored, so any reports
   concerning the Beatles presumably had official blessing,” Knott writes.
   “But cumulatively, the evidence suggests more than this: that there was
   an attempt in 1967 by Greek tourism representatives to use the Beatles’
   visit to generate beneficial publicity. … To be clear, I am not
   suggesting that any of the Beatles were at any time aware that their
   trip might be, or might have been used, in this way.”

   Knott describes how when the group found their island (believed to be
   Tsougrias, off Skiathos) and before the deal fell through, they were
   instructed to wire “£120,000 worth of property dollars in total to
   cover legal fees and renovating the properties”.
   Greece slips quietly back to army rule
   Read more

   The trip to Greece had been organised by the late Alexis Mardas, an
   electronics genius affectionately named Magic Alex, who had invented a
   light-box that stimulated Lennon’s LSD trips and was one of the
   Beatles’ first Apple company employees. Mardas, who would fall out
   spectacularly with the band, was the son of an airforce officer with
   close links to the colonels. “It appears likely that official tourism
   representatives and Alexis Mardas were involved,” Knott writes.

   Later, Barry Miles, a friend of the group and Paul McCartney’s
   biographer, said he had been “horrified” by the Beatles’ stance,
   telling the author Peter Doggett in his book There’s a riot going on:
   Revolutionaries, rock stars and the rise and fall of 60s
   counter-culture: “As I remember it, Paul was faintly embarrassed by it
   all, but John wasn’t concerned. As far as I can gather, the entire trip
   to Greece was just a haze of LSD, though. None of them really knew
   where the hell they were.”

   Historians concur that the Beatles’ presence in Greece would have been
   seen as a boon. “The colonels were desperate very early on for some
   kind of legitimisation from abroad,” said Alexandros Nafpliotis, whose
   expertise is in the regime era. “The Beatles being in Greece in the
   middle of Beatlemania would have constituted a propaganda coup for
   them.”

   Half a century later, as Greece prepares to commemorate the November
   1973 polytechnic uprising against the regime – an event that would lead
   to the Colonels’ overthrow – questions are being asked as to how a
   cluster of paranoid, low-level army officers managed to stay in power
   for so long. The Beatles’ sojourn in Greece – and their dream of
   acquiring an island - will undoubtedly come into sharper focus.

   “Although the thought of the Beatles ostensibly buying their own
   private Greek island tends to be recalled with a touch of romance and
   whimsy, [Knott’s] article really highlights the process as being
   anything but,” said Dr Holly Tessler, who co-edits the Journal of
   Beatles Studies.

   “Often influenced and sometimes dazzled by some of Apple’s employees,
   the Beatles’ almost-purchase shows both their naivety and their
   innocence, sometimes exploited by those in their inner circle.”
   Explore more on these topics


   Reuse this content

Most viewed

Most viewed



   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian
   every morning
   Sign up for our email



   Back to top
   rights reserved. (dcr)
