   IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on
   another browser. (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) SKIP TO CONTENT
     * Israel-Hamas War
     * GOP Debate
     * Politics
     * U.S. News
     * World
     * Business
     * Health
     * NBC News Tipline
     * Video
     * Culture & trends

   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

     * Share & Save —
     *
     *
     *
     *
     * (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
   My NewsManage ProfileEmail Preferences (BUTTON) Sign Out
   (BUTTON)
   Search
   ____________________ (BUTTON)

   Profile
    My News (BUTTON) Sign Out
   (BUTTON)  Sign In (BUTTON) Create your free profile

   Sections
     * Meet the Press
     * U.S. News
     * Politics
     * World
     * Local
     * Business
     * Health
     * Investigations
     * Culture & Trends
     * Science
     * Sports
     * Tech & Media
     * Video Features
     * Photos
     * Weather
     * NBC Select
     * Decision 2024
     * NBC Asian America
     * NBC BLK
     * NBC Latino
     * NBC OUT

   tv
     * Today
     * Nightly News
     * MSNBC
     * Meet the Press
     * Dateline

   Featured
     * NBC News Now
     * Nightly Films
     * Stay Tuned
     * Special Features
     * Newsletters
     * Podcasts
     * Listen Now

   More From NBC
     * CNBC
     * NBC.COM
     * NBCU Academy
     * Peacock
     * NEXT STEPS FOR VETS
     * NBC News Site Map
     * Help

   Follow NBC News
     *
     *
     *

   (BUTTON)

news Alerts

   There are no new alerts at this time
   (BUTTON)
   Search
   ____________________ (BUTTON)
     * Facebook
     * Twitter
     * Email
     * SMS
     * Print
     * Whatsapp
     * Reddit
     * Pocket
     * Flipboard
     * Pinterest
     * Linkedin

     * WATCH: NBC News NOW
     * Latest Stories
     * Israel-Hamas War
     * GOP Debate
     * Politics
     * U.S. News
     * World
     * Business
     * Health
     * NBC News Tipline
     * Video
     * Culture & trends

   EXCLUSIVE
   Tech News
   Tech News

How the GOP muzzled the quiet coalition that fought foreign propaganda

   The FBI put a pause on briefings with tech companies due to an ongoing
   lawsuit, adding to a broader breakdown in a system meant to guard
   against influence operations and to ensure election integrity.
   Image of Jim Jordan interrupted by square images with election ballot
   drop box, Mark Zuckerberg, and X logo
   Kelsea Petersen / NBC News
     *
     *
     *
     *
     * (BUTTON)
     *
     * (BUTTON) Print
     *

   Nov. 10, 2023, 1:05 PM UTC
   By Kevin Collier and Ken Dilanian

   A once-robust alliance of federal agencies, tech companies, election
   officials and researchers that worked together to thwart foreign
   propaganda and disinformation has fragmented after years of sustained
   Republican attacks.

   The GOP offensive started during the 2020 election as public critiques
   and has since escalated into lawsuits, governmental inquiries and
   public relations campaigns that have succeeded in stopping almost all
   coordination between the government and social media platforms.

   The most recent setback came when the FBI put an indefinite hold on
   most briefings to social media companies about Russian, Iranian and
   Chinese influence campaigns. Employees at two U.S. tech companies who
   used to receive regular briefings from the FBI’s Foreign Influence Task
   Force told NBC News that it has been months since the bureau reached
   out.

   In a testimony last week to the Senate Homeland Security Committee, FBI
   Director Christopher Wray signaled a significant pullback in
   communications with tech companies and tied the move to rulings by a
   conservative federal judge and appeals court that said some government
   agencies and officials should be restricted from communicating and
   meeting with social media companies to moderate content. The case is
   now on hold pending Supreme Court review.

   “We’re having some interaction with social media companies,” Wray said.
   “But all of those interactions have changed fundamentally in the wake
   of the court rulings.”

   Wray didn’t elaborate, but sources familiar with the matter told NBC
   News that all the FBI’s interactions with tech platforms now have to be
   pre-approved and supervised by Justice Department lawyers.

   The FBI told the House Judiciary Committee that, since the court
   rulings, the bureau had discovered foreign influence campaigns on
   social media platforms but in some cases did not inform the companies
   about them because they were hamstrung by the new legal oversight,
   according to a congressional official.

   “This is the worst possible outcome in terms of the injunction,” said
   one U.S. official familiar with the matter. “The symbiotic relationship
   between the government and the social media companies has definitely
   been fractured.”

   The FBI declined to comment.

   More than a dozen current and former government and tech employees who
   have been involved in fighting online manipulation campaigns and
   election falsehoods since 2020 echoed those concerns. Most agreed to
   speak only on the condition that they not be named, all citing the
   current climate of harassment against people who work in election and
   information integrity.

   A common theme among those interviewed: The chilling effect that
   Republican attacks had on the sharing of information about possible
   interference, which could make it easier for foreign adversaries to
   manipulate U.S. public opinion and harder for 2024 voters to sort out
   what’s real from what’s fake.

   Beyond the FBI briefings, other coordination efforts have folded after
   facing pressure from conservatives. The Cybersecurity and
   Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), which oversees federal election
   cybersecurity and has become a favorite target of Republicans, has
   halted its outreach to Silicon Valley, and the Department of Homeland
   Security has shuttered a board designed to coordinate its
   anti-disinformation programs.

   “Some of these efforts really are designed to isolate people and make
   them feel like they can’t communicate with CISA, like they can’t
   communicate with their peers in other states,” a person who works in
   state election administration said.

   “People feel that things are really, really fraught, and common sense
   does not rule today,” the person added.

   Some politicians are sounding the alarm. Sen. Mitt Romney, R-Utah, said
   efforts to stop foreign manipulation of U.S. politics are well within
   the government’s remit.

   “I understand we don’t want to interdict constitutionally protected
   speech, but what is constitutionally protected speech?” he said.
   “Certainly foreign agents don’t have constitutionally protected speech
   because they’re not subject to our Constitution. I presume bots don’t
   have constitutionally protected speech. American citizens do.”

   Microsoft recently said it expects Russia, Iran and China to engage in
   sophisticated influence operations ahead of the 2024 election.

   Sen. Mark Warner, D-Va., the head of the Senate Intelligence Committee
   who had vocally pushed for election security coordination after 2016,
   told NBC News he had “grave concerns” about the setbacks of the system
   that defends against social media and election manipulation.

   “We are seeing a potential scenario where all the major improvements in
   identifying, threat-sharing, and public exposure of foreign malign
   influence activity targeting U.S. elections have been systematically
   undermined,” Warner said.

   Before 2016, there was little political will in the U.S. for the
   government or for tech companies to share intelligence with each other
   or protect voters from foreign influence campaigns. That year, Russia
   launched a multifaceted interference campaign that included the
   Kremlin-tied Internet Research Agency reaching tens of millions of
   Facebook and Twitter users. Hackers working for Russian intelligence
   stole and leaked emails from Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign,
   probed an election machine company and stole voter information from the
   state of Illinois.

   In the aftermath, President Barack Obama’s outgoing secretary for the
   Department of Homeland Security declared elections to be critical
   infrastructure, a move that drew immediate criticism from conservative
   election officials. Congress voted for the Department of Homeland
   Security to spin out its cyber and infrastructure protection efforts
   into CISA.

   Meanwhile, the FBI created the Foreign Influence Task Force, meant to
   act as an intermediary that ferried information between the U.S.
   intelligence community and tech companies. The National Security Agency
   declined to comment for this story, but its director said in 2022 that
   the agency had fed intelligence about foreign propagandists to the task
   force to share with tech platforms.

   CISA started holding its own meetings with tech companies, briefing
   them on election administration nuances and helping set up a
   “switchboard” system to flag election falsehoods online. The new system
   allowed a local election official to, for example, communicate to
   Facebook that a local group was directing people to the wrong polling
   site, in violation of the company’s policies.

   These partnerships between government, corporations and legal and
   academic researchers were praised after 2020 as a crucial part of
   ensuring a secure election.

   After the election, a victory for the Democrats and Joe Biden,
   President Donald Trump and many other conservatives refused to accept
   the loss and lashed out at political enemies. They targeted a number of
   election integrity operations, including the channels that shared
   information on disinformation, often accusing them of censoring
   conservative voices.

   Many of them focused on Twitter and Facebook’s decision to temporarily
   limit the reach of a New York Post story about Biden’s son, Hunter.
   Published a few weeks before the election, to the tech platforms it had
   echoes of when Russia leaked Hillary Clinton’s emails in 2016. While
   Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerburg said FBI statements about certain threats
   fit the pattern of the Hunter Biden story, both later said the agency
   didn’t specifically say the Biden emails were a foreign intelligence
   campaign. Digital forensics experts have verified that at least some of
   those emails were authentic but much remains unknown about the origins
   of the files.

   Since then, Republicans have sent many election integrity efforts into
   retreat.

   Last year, the attorneys general offices of Missouri and Louisiana
   filed a joint lawsuit against the Biden administration, alleging that
   federal government outreach to tech companies about content on their
   platform — including law enforcement tips about election integrity and
   Covid-19 — constituted intimidation and a violation of First Amendment
   protections to free speech.

   The case is still winding its way through the courts. Last month, the
   Supreme Court blocked a lower court’s ruling in favor of the
   conservative states’ case while it hears an appeal.

   Other efforts have been stopped before they could get started. In March
   2022, the Department of Homeland Security created a board to help
   coordinate its own response to viral falsehoods, prompting outcry from
   conservatives who claimed the government was policing speech. Nina
   Jankowicz, a researcher who studies disinformation and technology, was
   brought in to run the board and quickly became the target of a
   debilitating harassment campaign. Homeland Security shut down the board
   five months later.

   Jankowicz said that the decision likely sent a message to federal
   workers that they might face retaliation for speaking out in a way that
   upset vocal critics.

   “If you’re the one who’s raising the alarm about foreign interference
   or about something that is disenfranchising people and letting the
   platforms know, but it might cost you your job or your safety and
   security, you think twice about doing that,” Jankowicz said.

   Biden’s head of CISA, Jen Easterly, a decorated intelligence official
   who had no prior experience in a public government role, started her
   tenure with optimism that her agency played a major role confronting
   disinformation.

   “One could argue we’re in the business of critical infrastructure, and
   the most critical infrastructure is our cognitive infrastructure, so
   building that resilience to misinformation and disinformation, I think,
   is incredibly important,” she said at a talk hosted by Wired magazine
   in her first year on the job.

   But Easterly, who frequently characterizes herself as nonpartisan, soon
   withdrew the agency from roles that most actively fought
   disinformation. Aside from maintaining a webpage that corrects common
   misconceptions about how elections work, CISA now focuses more on goals
   like protecting poll workers’ physical safety, connecting election
   officials with cybersecurity resources, and pushing software companies
   to do a better job building secure programs.

   CISA stopped briefing platforms about how U.S. elections are
   administered after the 2022 midterms, a current CISA employee said,
   though they did not attribute the move to Republican pressure. Two
   people familiar with the agency said Easterly had pulled back from
   outreach to social media companies after being surprised by the
   severity of conservatives’ attacks

   Republican demonization of the agency hasn’t abated. After the GOP took
   the House of Representatives in 2022, the House Judiciary Committee,
   led by Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, has spent much of this term focused on
   grievances from the 2020 election. It subpoenaed Easterly earlier this
   year, then issued a report that claimed “CISA metastasized into the
   nerve center of the federal government’s domestic surveillance and
   censorship operations on social media.”

   In a podcast interview on “On with Kara Swisher” in June, Easterly
   explained that CISA will also no longer help flag state and local
   election officials’ concerns to social media companies.

   “I need to ensure we are able to do our core mission, to reduce risk to
   critical infrastructure. And at this point in time, I do not think the
   risk of us dealing with social media platforms is worth any benefit,
   quite frankly,” Easterly said, though she did not specify the source of
   the risk.

   “I made a decision not to do that. So we are not doing that. Local
   election officials can give that to the platforms themselves, and I
   think that’s the right place for us to be,” she said.

   Through an agency spokesperson, Easterly declined to comment. In an
   emailed statement, she said: “Election security is one of CISA’s top
   priorities, and along with our interagency partners, we’re fully
   focused on supporting state and local election officials as they
   prepare for the 2024 election cycle. As we have since 2017, CISA will
   continue to lean forward and do our part to ensure the American people
   can have confidence in the security and resilience of our most sacred
   democratic process.”

   Meanwhile, some platforms have cut back on trust and safety teams. Tech
   companies are still sharing their findings with each other, a Meta
   spokesperson told NBC News. The exception is X, whose owner Elon Musk
   released a giant cache of emails and company documents related to its
   previous trust and safety efforts and also made huge cuts to its trust
   and safety and election integrity teams. During the Israel-Hamas war, X
   has left viral terror videos from Hamas go viral and linger on the site
   for days.

   One current X employee, who wasn’t authorized to speak for the company,
   said they had no remaining faith that the company could handle
   propaganda campaigns.

   “The company no longer has the team, the tools, or the capabilities to
   identify and mitigate these attacks,” they said.
   Kevin Collier

   Kevin Collier is a reporter covering cybersecurity, privacy and
   technology policy for NBC News.
   Ken Dilanian

   Ken Dilanian is the justice and intelligence correspondent for NBC
   News, based in Washington.

     * About
     * Contact
     * Help
     * Careers
     * Ad Choices
     * Privacy Policy
     * Do Not Sell My Personal Information
     * CA Notice
     * Terms of Service (Updated JULY 7, 2023)
     * NBC News Sitemap
     * Closed Captioning
     * Advertise
     * Select Shopping
     * Select Personal Finance

   © 2023 NBC UNIVERSAL
