   IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on

   BREAKING: University of Pennsylvania president steps down amid
   criticism of antisemitism testimony



   Search

   Profile

   Sections

   tv

   Featured

   More From NBC

   Follow NBC News


news Alerts

   There are no new alerts at this time
   Search


   War in Ukraine

Russian propaganda efforts aided by pro-Kremlin content creators, research
finds

   A report from the Institute for Strategic Dialogue found that the
   creators, who make videos in a variety of languages, have flourished
   since Russia invaded Ukraine.
   DPR LPR Russia Ukraine Military Operation
   Russian servicemen are seen in Mariupol, Donetsk People's Republic, on
   April 4. Ilya Pitalev / Sputnik via AP file

   June 8, 2022, 6:01 PM UTC
   By Brandy Zadrozny

   A small network of pro-Kremlin content creators have seen their
   audiences grow dramatically in recent months while spreading
   disinformation about the war in Ukraine, evading social media
   platforms’ efforts to curb Russian propaganda and paving a path to
   Western audiences, according to research published Wednesday.

   The creators are self-described “independent journalists” whose reports
   are often made from Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine and amplify
   Kremlin talking points and downplay or deny reported Russian
   atrocities. Researchers say the on-the-ground reports — which come in
   English, French, German and other languages — have proved effective at
   circumnavigating commitments from European governments and U.S.-based
   social media platforms to stop the spread of Russian propaganda.

   Soon after Russia invaded Ukraine in February, many tech platforms took
   steps to curb the amplification of false Russian narratives.

   Facebook and Instagram blocked Russian state-controlled media in Europe
   and throttled recommendations of those accounts, and YouTube blocked
   them globally. Facebook and YouTube have banned Russian
   state-controlled media outlets from advertising. Twitter, Facebook and
   YouTube apply labels and links to fact checks on content that violates
   their policies against disinformation about the war.

   Most of these efforts focused on official Russian government and state
   media accounts. That plan, while partially effective, misses a major
   vector of Kremlin disinformation, according to the Institute for
   Strategic Dialogue, a London-based think tank that produced the
   research.

   “The current strategy is too focused on explicit affiliation with the
   Kremlin, state media accounts and outlets, journalists with explicit
   affiliations, and embassies and consulates,” said Melanie Smith, ISD’s
   director of digital analysis. “It misses a large volume of content
   coming from actors who can reach huge audiences very quickly and spread
   pro-Kremlin disinformation without the state actually having to be
   directly involved.”

   Content creators and social media influencers have emerged in the past
   year as one of the newer avenues for disinformation. Some YouTubers
   exposed a plot to use creators to spread Covid disinformation, while
   The Associated Press reported in March that China’s government had
   found success with its own network of English-language creators.

   The war against Ukraine has been a boon to once small-time,
   Kremlin-friendly content creators, some of whom have been active for
   years. The researchers identified a group of 12 of the most influential
   Telegram, Facebook and Twitter.

   Those creators have seen their audiences grow since Russia invaded
   Ukraine, most notably on YouTube and Telegram. Some of the creators
   profit from crowdfunding, ads attached to their YouTube videos despite
   policies barring monetization, and chat functions that allow users to
   donate during livestreams.

   Telegram and YouTube did not respond to requests for comment.

   Among the dozen most influential Western propagandists identified by
   ISD is Alina Lipp, a German creator who claims backing Ukraine is akin
   to supporting Nazism and reported the debunked claim that Ukrainians
   perpetrated a false flag massacre at a maternity hospital in Mariupol.
   Lipp’s following (mostly on Telegram, but also YouTube) grew from about
   2,000 in February to over 160,000 in May. Lipp did not respond to a
   request for comment.

   ISD also named Eva Bartlett, a Canadian activist who previously pushed
   conspiracy theories alleging Syrian rescue workers known as the White
   Helmets were staging fake attacks during the Syrian civil war. Bartlett
   isn’t employed by RT, the ​​Russian state-controlled news network, but
   she has written op-eds on RT’s website, makes videos with RT
   correspondents and shares archived versions of RT content to get around
   the platforms’ blocking of Russian state media. Facebook has labeled
   Bartlett’s posts with a disclaimer that she “may be partially or wholly
   under the editorial control of the Russian government.” Bartlett did
   not respond to a request for comment.

   Gonzalo Lira, a Chilean American who previously posted misogynistic
   content, now makes pro-Russian videos from inside Ukraine, including
   denying Russian involvement in what Ukrainian officials say was the
   killing of more than 400 people in the city of Bucha.

   Human rights organization Amnesty International reported that Russian
   troops engaged in torture and “extrajudicial killings” there. Lira’s
   YouTube following has tripled since the invasion to 153,000. Lira did
   not respond to a request for comment.

   The most popular of the pro-Kremlin influencers identified by
   researchers is Patrick Lancaster, a Missouri-born Navy intelligence
   veteran and self-described independent crowdfunded journalist embedded
   with the Russian army. Since December, Lancaster’s YouTube channel has
   grown from 57,500 subscribers to more than 500,000, with daily
   dispatches from Russian-occupied Ukraine. His videos are often
   breathless reports with graphic footage of dead bodies, violence for
   which Lancaster claims Ukraine is responsible. The scene in at least
   state media and on the Texas-based conspiracy theory radio show
   “Infowars.”

   Below Lancaster’s YouTube videos, he posts, “I show what the western
   media will not show you.” He did not respond to a request for comment.

   Human rights organizations have documented numerous cases of apparent
   war crimes perpetrated by the Russian military against Ukrainian
   civilians. The United Nations estimated that more than 9,300 Ukrainian
   civilians have been killed in the war, but said the actual count is
   “considerably higher.”

   Smith said the creators have proven particularly difficult to moderate
   and a powerful tool for spreading propaganda.

   “Some of the disinformation that we see spread quickly isn’t being
   fact-checked because they’re reaching an audience that is deemed to be
   smaller or less important than that reached by RT and Sputnik, but the
   talking points are the same and the evidence being presented is the
   same,” Smith said. “These are independent people who can speak freely
   within the bounds of the policies of the platforms. And sometimes, that
   spills over into incitement of violence, denying war crimes and
   spreading very blatant pieces of disinformation about the context of
   what’s happening and about how people are being victimized.”
   Brandy Zadrozny

   Brandy Zadrozny is a senior reporter for NBC News. She covers
   misinformation, extremism and the internet.
