   War+crimes%2CLaw%2CCensorship%2CSocial+media%2CDigital+media%2CEurope%2
   CMedia%2CWorld+news] Skip to main contentSkip to navigationSkip to
   navigation

   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]

   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian

   ShowMoreShow More
       google-search
       Search










   Dom Mckenzie illustration of angry propagandist
   Illustration: Dominic McKenzie/The Observer
   Illustration: Dominic McKenzie/The Observer
   The ObserverUkraine
   This article is more than 1 year old

Russia’s genocidal propaganda must not be passed off as freedom of speech

   This article is more than 1 year old
   Peter Pomerantsev
   Peter Pomerantsev
   As cases of war crimes pile up against Russia, can peddlers of hate be
   held to account?
   Sun 16 Oct 2022 08.00 CESTLast modified on Tue 18 Oct 2022 16.55 CEST

   I was in gorgeous, courageous Kyiv on Monday when the latest Russian
   missile shower hit Ukraine, murdering civilians and knocking out heat
   and light on the cusp of winter. Kyivans took it calmly. My meeting
   smoothly transferred from a cafe to the metro, where we chain-drank
   coffee and carried on under the sirens and occasional, reverberating
   booms of missile defence. On social media and Russian TV, the grotesque
   propaganda cast of state-controlled media, officials and tub-thumping
   pundits were their usual sadistic selves, celebrating the strikes and
   calling for more attacks on civilians and critical infrastructure.

   For years, and especially since the invasion of 24 February, Russian
   state media has been calling to wipe Ukraine off the map, for killing
   Ukrainians en masse, and dehumanising its people, smearing them as
   “Nazis” who need to be “denazified”.

   Examples are plentiful. In Russia’s state-run RIA Novosti news agency,
   the pro-Kremlin journalist Timofey Sergeytsev called for the
   destruction of Ukraine’s national identity and a campaign of brutal
   punishment of its people. He called for imprisonment, forced labour and
   death for those who refused to comply with the Kremlin’s rule in
   Ukraine. In the programme of the well-known propagandist Vladimir
   Solovyov, one of the guests stated the following: “Ukraine cannot be
   repaired. You cannot repair this construct. It has to be destroyed as
   it is anti-Russia, an entity that threatens Russia.”

   As the cases of war crimes, crimes against humanity, crimes of
   aggression and genocide pile up against the Russian leadership and
   military, is there a way to hold members of the propaganda machine
   accountable as well? Are they protected by freedom of speech or is
   their role qualitatively different: not mere trumpeters of abhorrent
   cases across the world: from Donald Trump using Twitter to (allegedly)
   egg on the rioters at the US Capitol on 6 January, to the Myanmar

     Julius Streicher, editor of the wildly antisemitic Nazi paper Der
     Stürmer, was found guilty of inciting genocide and hanged

   The question of the legal culpability of propagandists was one of the
   reasons for my visit: I had chaired a panel on the topic at the Lviv
   Book Forum. We’d discussed historical examples of propagandists found
   guilty in the dock. The author and lawyer Philippe Sands pointed out
   that at Nuremberg, Julius Streicher, the editor of the wildly
   antisemitic Nazi paper Der Stürmer and “Jew-baiter number one” in the
   words of the prosecution, was found guilty of inciting genocide and
   hanged. After the 1994 Rwandan genocide, presenters on Radio Mille
   Collines were found guilty of various crimes, including incitement to
   genocide.

   But these examples are problematic too. Streicher was not just a
   journalist but also a political decision-maker, the Gauleiter of
   Franconia, who gave antisemitic speeches at Nazi rallies and took part
   in many anti-Jewish acts. However, Hans Fritzsche, the head of the
   Reichs Radio who was on air virtually every evening under the Nazis
   broadcasting frequent antisemitic speeches, was found not guilty. He
   was deemed a mere mouthpiece, with no control over events. One can
   imagine the clever lawyers of today’s Russian propagandists making the
   same case: however offensive their speech might be, they are pundits,
   not political decision-makers or generals.

   Meanwhile, the presenters on the radio in Rwanda could be very specific
   in guiding violent actions. “You have missed some of the enemies,” one
   told his audience. “You must go back there and finish them off. The
   graves are not yet full!” Russian propagandists might try to weasel
   their way out by claiming that even their calls to murder Ukrainians
   are just rhetorical games, not concrete instructions. Genocidal
   rhetoric, Sands explained in Lviv, is not the same as intent to
   genocide, which has to be tied to specific acts and plans.

   Perhaps it is for these reasons there have historically been relatively
   few cases that tried to bring propagandists to trial. But how useful
   are these historical examples in the light of how Russia uses
   propaganda in its military operations and domestic politics and in an
   era when technology has completely changed our information environment?
   Together with the lawyers Wayne Jordash of Global Rights Compliance and
   Toby Cadman of Guernica 37, I have spent the last weeks considering
   these new dimensions. Media in Russia is a vital tool in Vladimir
   Putin’s regime, inseparable from the workings of the state.
   Domestically, state-controlled TV and increasingly online media are
   used to persecute critical voices and help to undermine people’s access
   to alternative sources of information. The Russian media analyst Vasily
   Gatov describes the systemic overloading of disinformation as a sort of
   “censorship through noise”.

     Cadman describes the propagandist as the getaway driver who brings
     the bank robbers to the location – and drives them off again

   Russian military theory sees information operations as integral to
   military operations to an unprecedented extent – Russian state media
   managers even received military medals for their role during the
   annexation of Crimea in 2014.

   And rather than just nasty words broadcast on radio or TV, information
   with everything from online “troll farms” through to search engine
   If, for example, one can show that information campaigns purposefully
   spread lies that Ukrainian military are hiding in civilian areas such
   as hospitals in the advent of an attack, and encourage attacks on the
   areas, then these lies become more than just abhorrent, they become
   integral parts of aiding and abetting crimes. Cadman describes the
   propagandist as the getaway driver who brings the bank robbers to the
   location – and drives them off again; Jordash as the grey-haired
   consigliere who urges the criminal gang to leave no prisoners.

   It felt apposite having this debate in Lviv, the city that produced the
   two legal geniuses, Lemkin and Lauterpacht, who in the early 20th
   century redefined accountability by developing the concepts of
   “genocide” and “crimes against humanity”. Today, we need similarly
   fresh thinking. Across the world, we see the powerful using a new
   information environment to suppress rights, and then hiding behind
   “freedom of expression”. Ukraine will be the place where we challenge
   this and delineate between the genuine right to even the nastiest types
   enhancing repression and facilitating atrocities.

   Peter Pomerantsev is the author of Nothing Is True and Everything Is
   Possible: Adventures in Modern Russia

   Do you have an opinion on the issues raised in this article? If you
   would like to submit a letter of up to 250 words to be considered for
   publication, email it to us at observer.letters@observer.co.uk

   Explore more on these topics


   Reuse this content

Most viewed

Most viewed



   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian
   every morning
   Sign up for our email



   Back to top
   rights reserved. (dcr)
