   raine%2CWorld+news%2CEurope%2CThe+far+right] Skip to main contentSkip
   to navigationSkip to navigation

   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]

   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian

   ShowMoreShow More
       google-search
       Search










   Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova interview on
   Italian television
   Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova in an interview
   Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova in an interview
   Italy
   This article is more than 3 months old

‘A success for Kremlin propaganda’: how pro-Putin views permeate Italian
media

   This article is more than 3 months old

   With pro-Russia commentators regularly appearing on TV, Italians are
   less likely to back Ukraine than people in most other EU states


   Lorenzo Tondo in Palermo
   @lorenzo_tondo
   Thu 31 Aug 2023 14.13 CESTLast modified on Thu 31 Aug 2023 22.30 CEST

   Whenever Nello Scavo returns from Ukraine, he is overcome with
   frustration. As a war correspondent for the Italian national newspaper
   Avvenire, he knows the first question people will ask him is: “Is it
   really as bad as they say?”

   “Sometimes I think that only if I come back badly injured will people
   start taking me seriously,” he told the Guardian. “It’s as if they
   don’t believe that Russia is massacring civilians. The problem is that
   Vladimir Putin has always enjoyed wide sympathy in Italian politics and
   public opinion, with the Kremlin always enjoying effective propaganda
   here.”

   Although Italy’s far-right government is one of Ukraine’s staunchest
   European supporters, Russian propaganda and disinformation permeates
   Italian media – something researchers attribute to politics and
   historical anti-Atlanticism – with openly pro-Russian guests invited on
   the country’s most popular talkshows. A survey released by Ipsos in
   April revealed that almost 50% of Italians prefer not to take sides in
   the conflict.

   Matteo Pugliese, an Italian security and terrorism researcher at the
   University of Barcelona has tracked the procession of Russian
   government officials, ideologues and media personalities hosted by
   Italian TV networks since the Russian invasion. They include the
   Russian foreign minister, Sergei Lavrov, and his spokesperson, Maria
   Zakharova; the ultranationalist Russian ideologue Alexander Dugin; Olga
   Belova, a journalist at Russia 24, an outlet that denied the Bucha
   massacre; and Yulia Vityazeva, a journalist at NewsFront – based in
   Russia-occupied Crimea and operated by the FSB – who, in a Telegram
   post, wished a bomb would strike the Eurovision song contest in Turin
   after Ukraine’s victory.
   Nello Scavo
   Nello Scavo: ‘The problem is that Vladimir Putin has always enjoyed
   wide sympathy in Italian politics and public opinion’

   “Compared to other western European countries, Italy gave
   disproportionate exposure to Russian propaganda, in my opinion simply
   because TV producers wanted to increase their share of certain shows
   with heated debates,” Pugliese said.

   Pugliese noted the most Russian propagandists, 12, were hosted by
   Rete4, a channel from Mediaset, owned by Silvio Berlusconi, an old
   friend of Putin who, a few months before he died, claimed that the
   Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, “provoked” Russia’s invasion.
   Berlusconi, who served as prime minister three times, nurtured close
   relations with the Russian president, praising his leadership and
   helping to forge energy deals that some blame for Italy’s current
   dependence on Russian gas.

   “In Italy, rightwing parties especially have maintained good relations
   with Putin,” Scavo said. “Not only Berlusconi, but even current deputy
   PM Matteo Salvini, who used to wear a T-shirt featuring Putin’s face.”

   Italy’s parliamentary committee for security, Copasir, last year
   launched an investigation amid widespread concern about Kremlin-linked
   Russian commentators appearing on Italian news channels, as several
   Ukrainian journalists refused to accept invitations to Italian TV
   shows.
   Photographer says street artist used daughter’s picture in pro-Russia
   mural
   Read more

   In some cases the guests on Italian TV are not Russian propagandists,
   but Italian commentators who seem to view the war as the result of
   western provocation. One regularly invited to La7 and Rai, is
   Alessandro Orsini, professor of the sociology of terrorism and
   political violence at Luiss university in Rome. Orsini has publicly
   said that Zelenskiy is as much a “war criminal” as Putin and has become
   so popular that his discussions in Italian theatres sell out. Orsini,
   who calls himself a pacifist, believes the only way to save Ukraine is
   to recognise Putin’s supposed victory. His ideas are widespread in the
   Italian pacifist movement, with several intellectuals pushing for peace
   at the cost of Ukraine’s surrender. When accused of being pro-Russian,
   Orsini said he “didn’t even have one Russian friend”.

   “It’s not pacifism to suggest surrender as a solution,” said Arianna
   Ciccone, founder of Valigia Blu, an Italian independent factchecking
   website, and co-founder of the International Journalism Festival.

   “These people have always been historically anti-Nato. They
   hypocritically hide their anti-Americanism behind a ‘mask’ of pacifism.
   In some cases this results in genuine anti-Ukrainian sentiment. We’ve
   doubts about Bucha and Mariupol. Not even with the mountain of evidence
   have they had the courage to admit the truth. How can they be
   pacifists?”
   Russian political scientist and ideologue Alexander Dugin
   The ultranationalist Russian ideologue Alexander Dugin is one of the
   pro-Putin commentators to appear on Italian TV. Photograph: Maxim
   Shemetov/Reuters

   Last year, an independent study by the Institute for Strategic Dialogue
   doubt about Russian war crimes perpetrated in Bucha.

   Italian TV presenters defend their decision to host alleged Russian
   propagandists or commentators with “different views” on the war as part
   however, they do not seem to care that those defending the Russian
   invasion often spread disinformation and thus help to destabilise
   viewers with baseless claims,” Ciccone added.

   One glaring example is Moscow’s claim – dismissed by the UN, and used
   as a justification for its full-scale invasion in 2022 – that Ukrainian
   military action in the Donbas conflict amounted to genocide. Dozens of
   Italians joined Russian proxies in Donbas in the years after 2014 to
   fight against Kyiv.

   The majority of them are rightwing extremists attracted by Russian
   ultranationalism, but their ranks also count among them men belonging
   to the extreme left. In part this was a legacy of the postwar strength
   in 1976 and backed what was seen as the resistance of communist
   countries against American imperialism. This vision, in part, still
   animates supporters of the Italian extreme left who see Russia as a
   bulwark against the US, and also believe Putin’s claims about
   “Ukrainian Nazis”. To mark Victory Day in 2022, a holiday that
   commemorates the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany, the Communist party
   used by the Russian government as a pro-war motif. The organisers of
   the event dismissed critics, saying it “was not a provocation”.

   According to a Pew Research Center survey released in July, Italy is
   among the countries in the EU where people have the lowest confidence
   in Zelenskiy. According to the European Council on Foreign Relations,
   Italians were the most sympathetic to Russia of member states polled,
   with 27% blaming Ukraine and the US for the war.

   “The result of all this is a great confusion in Italian public opinion,
   which struggles over who to blame for the war, blaming equally Russia
   and Ukraine,” said Pugliese. “This is certainly a success for Kremlin
   propaganda.”
   Explore more on these topics


   Reuse this content

More on this story


More on this story


Italian opera singing joins pizza-making on UN cultural heritage list
       2d ago

Jailed Putin critic Alexei Navalny faces new charges
       2 Dec 2023

Russia paying wives of soldiers in Ukraine not to stage protests, says UK
       2 Dec 2023

Italy to withdraw from China’s belt and road initiative, say sources
       3d ago

Putin loyalist Valery Gergiev installed as director of Bolshoi theatre
       1 Dec 2023

Mystery of tyre-slashing spree solved as Italian police collar dog with
gingivitis
       5d ago

Leaning tower in Bologna to be saved as city announces €4m repair project
       2 Dec 2023

Russia outlaws ‘international LGBT public movement’ as extremist
       30 Nov 2023

Anger across Italy as killing of student highlights country’s femicide rate
       25 Nov 2023

Foreigners entering Russia could be forced to sign ‘loyalty pledge’
       29 Nov 2023

Most viewed

Most viewed



   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian
   every morning
   Sign up for our email



   Back to top
   rights reserved. (dcr)
