   CFossil+fuels%2CEnergy%2CAdvertising%2CClimate+crisis] Skip to main
   contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation


   ShowMoreShow More
       google-search
       Search









   Composite illustration of oil ads from 1962 to 2020

   Illustration: Guardian Design
   Climate crimes

The forgotten oil ads that told us climate change was nothing

   Illustration: Guardian Design

   Since the 1980s, fossil fuel firms have run ads touting climate denial
   messages – many of which they’d now like us to forget. Here’s our
   visual guide
   by Geoffrey Supran and Naomi Oreskes
   Supported by
   guardian.org
   About this content
   Thu 18 Nov 2021 11.00 CETLast modified on Thu 7 Dec 2023 19.37 CET

   Why is meaningful action to avert the climate crisis proving so
   difficult? It is, at least in part, because of ads.

   The fossil fuel industry has perpetrated a multi-decade, multibillion
   dollar disinformation, propaganda and lobbying campaign to delay
   climate action by confusing the public and policymakers about the
   climate crisis and its solutions. This has involved a remarkable array
   children” to “Oil pumps life” – seeking to convince the public that the
   climate crisis is not real, not human-made, not serious and not
   solvable. The campaign continues to this day.

   As recently as last month, six big oil CEOs were summoned to US
   Congress to answer for the industry’s history of discrediting climate
   science – yet they lied under oath about it. In other words, the fossil
   fuel industry is now misleading the public about its history of
   misleading the public.

   We are experts in the history of climate disinformation, and we want to
   set the record straight. So here, in black and white (and color), is a
   selection of big oil’s thousands of deceptive climate ads from 1984 to
   2021. This isn’t an exhaustive analysis, of which we have published
   several, but a brief, illustrated history – like the “sizzle reels”
   that creatives use to highlight their best work – of the 30-plus year
   evolution of fossil fuel industry propaganda. This is big oil’s PR
   sizzle reel.

Early days: learning to spin

   Humble Oil (now ExxonMobil) was not self-conscious about the potential
   environmental impacts of its products in this 1962 advertisement
   touting “Each day Humble supplies enough energy to melt 7 million tons
   Life Magazine, 1962

   The truth behind the ad: Three years earlier, in 1959, America’s oil
   bosses had been warned that burning fossil fuels could lead to global
   heating “sufficient to melt the icecap and submerge New York”.

   Their knowledge only grew. A 1979 internal Exxon study warned of
   “dramatic environmental effects” before 2050. “By the late 1970s”, a
   former Exxon scientist recently recalled, “global warming was no longer
   speculative”.’

‘Reposition global warming as theory (not fact)’

   In 1991, Informed Citizens for the Environment, a front group of coal
   and utility companies announced that “Doomsday is cancelled” and asked,
   “Who told you the earth was warming … Chicken Little?” They complained
   about “weak” evidence, “non-existent” proof, inaccurate climate models
   and asserted that the physics was “open to debate”.
   Informed Citizens for the Environment, 1991: “Who told you the earth
   was warming... Chicken Little?”
   Informed Citizens for the Environment, 1991: “Doomsday is cancelled.
   Again.”

   The truth behind the ads: Instead of warning the public about global
   heating or taking action, fossil fuel companies stayed silent as long
   as they could. In the late 1980s, however, the world woke up to the
   climate crisis, marking what Exxon called a “critical event”. The
   fossil fuel industry’s PR apparatus swung into action, implementing a
   strategy straight out of big tobacco’s playbook: to weaponize science
   against itself.

   A 1991 memo by Informed Citizens for the Environment made that strategy
   explicit: “Reposition global warming as theory (not fact).”

‘Emphasize the uncertainty’

   Mobil and ExxonMobil ran one of the most comprehensive climate denial
   campaigns of all time, with a foray in the 1980s, a blitz in the 1990s
   and continued messaging through the late 2000s. Their climate
   “advertorials” – advertisements disguised as editorials – appeared in
   the op-ed page of the New York Times and other newspapers and were part
   media to influence public and elite opinion in contemporary America”.
   New York Times, 1984: “Lies they tell our children”
   New York Times, 1993: “Apocalypse no”

   Between 1996 and 1998, for instance, Mobil ran 12 advertorials timed
   with the 1997 UN Kyoto negotiations that questioned whether the climate
   crisis is real and human-made and 10 that downplayed its seriousness.
   “Reset the alarm,” one ad suggested. “Let’s not rush to a decision at
   Kyoto … We still don’t know what role man-made greenhouse gases might
   play in warming the planet.”
   New York Times 1997 ad from Mobil: “What we don’t know”
   New York Times, Wall Street Journal and other publications, 2000, from
   Mobil: “Unsettled Science”
       Journal and other publications, 2000

   The truth behind the ads: “Exxon’s position”, instructed internal
   strategy memos from 1988-89, was to “extend the science” and “emphasize
   the uncertainty in scientific conclusions” about the climate crisis. Or
   as a 1998 “Action Plan” by Exxon, Chevron, API, utilities companies and
   the “media ‘understands’ (recognizes) uncertainties in climate
   science”.

   ExxonMobil continued to fund climate denial through at least 2018. One
   “determinations regarding the human role in recent climate change”.
   That was untrue. Nine years earlier, the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel
   global climate”. ExxonMobil’s chief climate scientist was a
   contributing author to the report.

Economic scaremongering

   “Don’t risk our economic future,” implored the Global Climate
   Coalition, a front group for utility, oil, coal, mining, railroad and
   car companies. This 1997 ad also targeted the Kyoto negotiations and
   was part of a $13m campaign that was so successful that the White House
   told GCC: President Bush “rejected Kyoto, in part, based on input from
   you”.
   Global Climate Coalition, 1997 ad: “Americans work hard for what we
   have, Mr. President. Don’t risk our economic future.”

   The truth behind the ad: Put “emphasis on costs/political realities”,
   instructed a 1989 Exxon strategy memo. Just as the fossil fuel industry
   funded contrarian scientists to deny climate science, it also touted
   the flawed economic analyses of industry-funded economists.

   The best predictors of fossil fuel industry ad spending are media
   scrutiny and political activity. Today, economic scaremongering has
   gone digital, with huge spikes in television and social media ad
   spending by oil lobbies each time climate regulations loom. In the
   runup to the 2018-20 US midterm and presidential elections, ExxonMobil
   spent more on political advertising on Facebook and Instagram than any

It’s not our fault, it’s yours

   From 2004 to 2006, a $100m-plus a year BP marketing campaign
   “introduced the idea of a ‘carbon footprint’ before it was a common
   buzzword”, according to the PR agent in charge of the campaign. The
   targets of this campaign were the “routine human activities” and
   “lifestyle choices” of “individuals” and the “average American
   household”. In 2019, BP ran a new “Know your carbon footprint” campaign
   BP ad in various publications, 2003 to 2006: “What on earth is a carbon
   footprint?”
   BP ad in various publications, 2003 to 2006: “Reduce your carbon
   footprint. But first, find out what it is.”

   The truth behind the ads: Big oil’s rhetoric has evolved from outright
   denial to more subtle forms of propaganda, including shifting
   responsibility away from companies and on to consumers. This mimics big
   tobacco’s effort to combat criticism and defend against litigation and
   regulation by “casting itself as a kind of neutral innocent, buffeted
   by the forces of consumer demand”.

Greenwashing: talk clean, act dirty

   “We’re partnering with major universities to develop the next
   generation of biofuels,” said Chevron in 2007. This is also a top
   talking point of BP, ExxonMobil and others.
   The New Yorker, 2007, Chevron ad: “We’re partnering with major
   universities to develop the next generation of biofuels.”

   ExxonMobil has been trumpeting its research into algae biofuels for
   more than a decade – from black-and-white print ads (2009) to digital
   commercials (2018-21).
   New York Times, 2009 ad from Exxon Mobil on algae biofuels

   New York Times 2018 algae ad

   The truth behind the ads: Greenwashing confers companies with an aura
   anti-clean energy disinformation, lobbying and investments. The goal is
   to defend what BP calls a company’s “social license to operate”.

   One way fossil fuel companies give themselves a green sheen is to
   establish – then boast about – what a 1998 API strategy memo termed
   “cooperative relationships” with reputable academic institutions. Big
   sponsorship of the London Science Museum’s climate exhibition comes
   with a gagging clause prohibiting the museum from discrediting the
   company’s reputation.

   As for algae: America’s five largest oil and gas companies spent $3.6bn
   has spent more on advertising than on algae research.

‘We’re part of the solution!’

   BP “developed an ‘all of the above’ strategy” for marketing energy from
   2006 to 2008, “before any presidential candidates spoke of the same”,
   according to BP’s PR lead.

   Big oil continues to promote this narrative of “fossil fuel
   solution-ism’, including its “all of the above” language, on social
   media, in Congress and in paid-for, pretend editorials in the
   Washington Post. To make this spin stick, fossil fuel companies have
   been calling methane “clean” since at least the 1980s. “Natural gas is
   already clean,” said API Facebook ads and billboards last year.
   BP’s ‘all of the above’ ad
       gas with renewable sources

   American Petroleum Institute native advertising in the Washington Post,
   2021
       Post, 2021

   The truth behind the ads: In contradiction to the science of stopping
   global heating, big oil asserts that fossil fuels will be essential for
   the foreseeable future. The “all of the above” energy mantra was – as
   BP’s advertising creative put it – “co-opted by politicians in 2008”
   and became a centerpiece of the Obama administration’s energy policies.
   The campaign also positioned methane as a “clean bridge” fuel.

   Like “clean coal”, calling methane “clean”, “cleanest” or “low-carbon”
   has been deemed false advertising by regulators.

Distorting reality in the 2020s and beyond

   A Shell TV ad last year featured birds in the sky, fields of wind and
   solar farms, the CEO of a Shell renewables subsidiary saying she’s
   “made the future far cleaner and far better for our children”, and not

   =oembed

   The truth behind the ad: Between 2010 and 2018, 98.7% of Shell’s
   investments were in oil and gas. Such misrepresentations are
   industry-wide.

   Today, we’re all inundated with ads that leverage a combination of
   narratives, including those illustrated above, to present fossil fuel
   companies as climate saviors. It’s way past time we called their bluff.

   The narratives highlighted here are a selection of “discourses of
   climate denial and delay” previously identified by the authors and
   discourses were identified by the authors based on a review of dozens
   libraries, newspaper archives, social media reports and lawsuits.

   Explore more on these topics


   Reuse this content

Most viewed

Most viewed



   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian
   every morning
   Sign up for our email



   Back to top
   rights reserved. (dcr)
