   #alternate alternate alternate ‘Flamin’ Hot’ Is So Bad, It Burns

   Skip to contentSkip to site index


   Today’s Paper

   Opinion|‘Flamin’ Hot’ Is So Bad, It Burns
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/06/26/opinion/flamin-hot-propaganda.html
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * 450

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Opinion

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Guest Essay

‘Flamin’ Hot’ Is So Bad, It Burns

   June 26, 2023
   The director of “Flamin’ Hot,” Eva Longoria, on a camera dolly,
   shooting the actor Jessie Garcia in front of a shelf of Cheetos.
   Jesse Garcia, left, and Eva Longoria on the set of “Flamin’
   Hot.Credit...Emily Aragones/Searchlight Pictures, via Associated Press
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * 450

   Adrian J. Rivera

   By Adrian J. Rivera

   Mr. Rivera is an editorial assistant in Opinion.
   Leer en español

   “Flamin’ Hot,” a movie released this month and recently screened on the
   South Lawn of the White House, is a piece of propaganda designed to
   make Mexican Americans, and Latinos more broadly, feel good about
   ourselves. There’s nothing inherently wrong with creating a film that
   seeks to make a person or a group feel good. (See: the genre of
   feel-good movies.) It can even be affirming to see yourself reflected
   in various media.

   But “Flamin’ Hot” is not only a very bad movie. It is a poor piece of
   propaganda. Wittingly or otherwise, it bolsters the white supremacy it
   purports to combat. By depicting a world in which Mexican Americans
   (and by implication all Latinos) need the approval of white people to
   feel good about ourselves, it reinforces the myth of white superiority.
   Winning, in the world of “Flamin’ Hot,” means becoming like those who
   oppress you.

   Given the gross underrepresentation of Latinos and our stories on
   bookshelves, small screens and silver screens, criticizing the movie,
   Eva Longoria’s feature directing debut, may provoke fellow Latinos to
   paint me as an anti-Latina, as a race traitor, as a pocho, slang for a
   Mexican American who’s lost his connection to his ancestry.

   I should be happy that the movie was picked up at all, they may say,
   and by Searchlight Pictures, Disney+ and Hulu, no less.

   But I’m not content with crumbs. Nobody should be. Latinos deserve
   complexity and nuance, truth and beauty. Latinos deserve art, not
   insultingly simplistic, barely disguised agendas that undermine our
   inherent and inalienable dignity.

   “Flamin’ Hot” is a film based on the life of Richard Montañez, a man
   who claims to have invented the Flamin’ Hot Cheeto. He almost certainly
   didn’t, a fact we know thanks to The Los Angeles Times. Even so,
   Richard, played by Jesse Garcia, is portrayed as a janitor turned
   Flamin’ Hot Cheeto inventor and marketing whiz. Through hard work and
   initiative, he saves his factory and his co-workers’ jobs, earning a
   place among C-suite executives in the process.

   “Initiative” is an important word in “Flamin’ Hot.” Early in the movie,
   when Richard is scrounging for a job, any job, a white shop owner tells
   him that he just doesn’t “look like the kind of guy who’s got an ounce
   of initiative.” His arc over the next hour and a half reaches a
   thematic climax during a phone call with Roger Enrico, who was then the
   chief executive of PepsiCo and, by extension, Frito-Lay. “I can’t stop
   thinking about your initiative,” Roger says.

   Richard has won over a white man.

   “Initiative” brings to mind another purportedly uplifting film, “Stand
   and Deliver,” a 1988 drama starring Edward James Olmos as Jaime
   Escalante, a Latino math teacher who transforms a class of
   underperformers into overachievers. In that movie, the operative word
   is “ganas,” a term that denotes desire, ambition, initiative. “You
   already have two strikes against you: your name and your complexion,”
   Jaime says in one of the movie’s most famous scenes. “You’re going to
   work harder here than you’ve ever worked anywhere else,” he tells the
   class. “And the only thing I ask from you is ganas.” Thirty-five years
   later, “Flamin’ Hot” conveys the same message: With hard work and
   initiative, you can dispel the stereotype of the dumb, lazy Mexican.

   Stereotypes are a fact of life in a racist society. Understanding that
   they are reductive generalizations, rather than enduring truths, does
   little to drain racially coded behavior of its stakes. In college, for
   example, if white professors or peers were late to a class or meeting,
   I’d assume they had a good reason. If I was late to a class or meeting,
   I couldn’t help but wonder if some thought I was on C.P. time,
   so-called colored people time, a concept I learned about only through
   the comedic stylings of Bill de Blasio and Hillary Clinton.

   But haven’t we realized by this, the 2023rd year of our Lord, that the
   onus is on those who hold the stereotype rather than on us? “Flamin’
   Hot” says no, that only through the gospel of ganas may we enter the
   kingdom of heaven. The film fails to realize that America is a
   Calvinist country — our works won’t save us. At this point, Latinos
   won’t persuade anyone to accept us who hasn’t already. We’re wasting
   our time trying.

   But, oh, how “Flamin’ Hot” tries. In one scene, a few white kids tease
   a young Richard about his lunch, a burrito. “Looks like it came out of
   a toilet,” one says. Richard loudly extols the virtues of his lunch:
   “Oh, my God,” he says in a heavy accent, his eyes going wide. “So good!
   Delicioso! Want some?” One kid dares his friend to try it. A cascade of
   praise follows after he takes a bite. “Hey, this is pretty good!” he
   says. “I want some! Give me one!” says another. And thus Chipotle is
   born.

   Later, when trying to convince a pessimistic co-worker that the Flamin’
   Hot Cheeto is the key to saving the factory, Richard looks back at that
   moment: “Sometimes, we just got to show them what the burrito’s worth.”
   He continues: “It may look like it’s worthless, but if people just took
   a bite, they’d see.” If it’s not clear — these lines are delivered with
   the subtlety of a brick thrown through a window — he is talking about
   more than just burritos. There are more explicit and egregious examples
   of our people being analogized to food throughout the movie. In another
   scene, he refers to workers in the endangered factory as “a bunch of
   brown chips on a conveyor belt, waiting to get tossed.”

   “Flamin’ Hot” offers a road map to winning over the white man: Try our
   burritos, get to know us and see that we’re not all bad! And the movie
   is bookended by scenes in which Richard wins a seat at the literal and
   metaphorical white man’s table. The film opens on a shot of Latino
   chefs cooking, then follows a Latino waiter around a restaurant that,
   save for Richard and his wife, looks to be patronized entirely by white
   people. As Richard exits the restaurant, he doles out generous-seeming
   tips to the wait staff, the busboy and the valet, all Latino.

   “Flamin’ Hot” isn’t even effective propaganda. There can be a
   successful Latino, the movie says, but only one; the people who serve
   him must also be Latino. Almost all the white people in the film are
   cast as villains, but in the end, they are bafflingly worth joining
   rather than defeating. You can be a Latino and take a white man’s
   place, but once there, you have to maintain the existing racial order.

   I don’t tend to watch movies that speak so directly to this aspect of
   my identity. It’s not because they don’t affect me but because I fear
   they will affect me too much. Feelings can be overwhelming, feelings
   about race unbearably so. But when I saw that much of the criticism
   around the movie dealt with its lack of veracity, I wanted to see it
   for myself and take it on its own terms.

   A movie can depart from the strict truth and capture a broader, deeper
   truth, so I hoped “Flamin’ Hot” would surprise me. Watching it was an
   utter disappointment, and I can only hope that the people who are
   enthusiastic about it soon train a more critical eye on it and on what
   it stands for. Once we realize that it’s asking us to grovel for white
   acceptance, to join the ranks of the oppressors without meaningfully
   improving the lots of all of us, we should never stream this movie
   again.

   I hope Ms. Longoria makes another movie. I hope that more stories about
   Latinos, by Latinos, make it into our various media. But I also hope
   those stories cover new ground in the quest to map the reality of being
   Latino, of being human. “Flamin’ Hot,” rather than expanding or even
   aptly describing that reality, constricts it.

   Adrian J. Rivera (@lwaysadrian) is an editorial assistant in Opinion.

   The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the
   editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our
   articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:
   letters@nytimes.com.

   Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter
   (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.

   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section SR, Page 9 of
   the New York edition with the headline: ‘Flamin’ Hot’ Is So Bad, It
   Burns. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
   450
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * 450

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation

     * © 2023 The New York Times Company

     * NYTCo
     * Contact Us
     * Accessibility
     * Work with us
     * Advertise
     * T Brand Studio
     * Your Ad Choices
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Service
     * Terms of Sale
     * Site Map
     * Canada
     * International
     * Help
     * Subscriptions

     * Manage Privacy Preferences

   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
