   #alternate alternate alternate alternate As Xi Heads to San Francisco,
   Chinese Propaganda Embraces America

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Asia Pacific


   Today’s Paper

   Asia Pacific|As Xi Heads to San Francisco, Chinese Propaganda Embraces
   America
   ca.html

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

As Xi Heads to San Francisco, Chinese Propaganda Embraces America

   After years of anti-American propaganda, the softer, warmer depiction
   users confused or amused.

   Xi Jinping holds behind a steering wheel inside a green and yellow
   tractor. A man is next to him, smiling.
   Xi Jinping, then-vice president of China, in Iowa in 2012 in a tractor
   with a farmer.Credit...Pool photo by Charlie Neibergall

   By Vivian Wang and Joy Dong
   Published Nov. 14, 2023Updated Nov. 16, 2023
   阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版

   Not long ago, Chinese propaganda was warning that American attempts at
   easing tensions were mere performance. Its state security agency was
   urging people to be on guard against American spies. The country’s
   leader, Xi Jinping, declared that the United States was engaged in a
   campaign of “all-around containment, encirclement and suppression,” in
   remarks broadcast across state media.

   Now, the tone used to discuss the United States has suddenly shifted.
   Xinhua, the state news agency, on Monday published a lengthy article in
   English about the “enduring strength” of Mr. Xi’s affection for
   with an Iowa farmer, and revisiting the home where he once stayed in an
   American college student’s “Star Trek”-themed bedroom.

   “More delightful moments unfolded when Xi showed up to watch an N.B.A.
   game,” the article continued, describing a visit by Mr. Xi to the
   United States in 2012. “He remained remarkably focused on the game.”

   Separately, Xinhua has published a five-part series in Chinese on
   “Getting China-U.S. Relations Back on Track.” A torrent of other state
   media articles has highlighted recent visits to China by the American
   Ballet Theater and the Philadelphia Orchestra, or the story of U.S.
   veterans who helped China fight Japan during World War II, some of whom
   visited China this month. “Veterans visit Chinese cities, anticipating
   everlasting China-U.S. friendship,” one headline declared.

   The about-face is part of Beijing’s preparation for Mr. Xi’s trip to
   San Francisco this week, his first visit to the United States in more
   than six years. He is expected to meet with President Biden on
   Wednesday, in an attempt by both leaders to stabilize relations between
   the two countries.

   Beijing, in particular, may be motivated to play up the meeting to
   reassure investors and foreign businesses, said Titus Chen, a professor
   China’s economy struggles, with anemic consumer spending and high youth
   unemployment, Chinese leaders are likely eager to show companies and
   investors that their relationship with the United States is not a major
   risk factor.

   “Propaganda of this type is not meant for persuasion — it is not
   persuasive at all,” Professor Chen said. “It is mainly designed for
   signaling, in the hope that recipients will get the signal and
   implement the proper response, which is investment, or resumption of
   exchanges.”

   But even if the intended audience is primarily overseas, many Chinese
   social media users have taken note of the abrupt turn — and have been
   left reeling, or at least wryly amused. On the platform Weibo, some
   joked that several new TV shows about fighting Americans during the
   Korean War would need to be shelved. One popular meme purported to show
   an editorial by People’s Daily, the Communist Party mouthpiece,
   promising legal repercussions for anyone who sought to derail
   U.S.-China relations.

   Under another post showing true, recent state media editorials
   promoting U.S.-China relations, a commenter wrote: “So, going forward,
   do we or don’t we need to hate America? So unclear.”

   Beyond social media snark, some Chinese academics and writers have also
   struck a more cautious or pessimistic note on the prospects of a thaw
   with the United States. On Guancha.cn, a nationalistic news and
   commentary site, columnists have noted that both countries are making
   short-term concessions for their own long-term strategic gain.

   Even the most flowery Chinese articles have drawn distinctions between
   warm ties between American and Chinese people, and their governments;
   some state media outlets have continued to warn that the outcome of the
   California meeting will hinge on the United States, in line with
   Beijing’s stance that the strained relationship is entirely
   Washington’s fault.

   In one widely circulated article published on Monday, Wang Jisi, a
   prominent professor of international relations at Peking University,
   wrote that a meeting between Mr. Xi and Mr. Biden was valuable — and
   likely to be in short supply going forward — as the United States
   enters an election year, when anti-China rhetoric might surge.

   On the future of U.S.-China relations, Professor Wang wrote, “I am only
   cautious, not optimistic.”

   Vivian Wang is a China correspondent based in Beijing, where she writes
   about how the country's global rise and ambitions are shaping the daily
   lives of its people. More about Vivian Wang

   Joy Dong covers news in mainland China and Hong Kong. She is based in
   Hong Kong. @JoyDongHK More about Joy Dong
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 11 of
   the New York edition with the headline: China Shows Softer Side to U.S.
   Ahead of San Francisco Summit. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper |
   Subscribe

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
