   #alternate alternate alternate alternate China’s ‘Absurd’ Covid
   Propaganda Stirs Rebellion

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Business


   Today’s Paper

   Business|China’s ‘Absurd’ Covid Propaganda Stirs Rebellion

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

China’s ‘Absurd’ Covid Propaganda Stirs Rebellion

   The use of propaganda in the country has been on overdrive in the
   pandemic, with some Chinese citizens arguing the language has bordered

   A Covid testing booth in Beijing last week. In some cases, Chinese
   citizens are required to get a coronavirus test three times a
   week.Credit...Gilles Sabrié for The New York Times
   Zixu Wang

   By Zixu Wang
   Sept. 29, 2022
   阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版

   “We have won the great battle against Covid!”

   “History will remember those who contributed!”

   “Extinguish every outbreak!”

   These are among the many battle-style slogans that Beijing has
   unleashed to rally support around its top-down, zero-tolerance
   coronavirus policies.

   China is now one of the last places on earth trying to eliminate
   Covid-19, and the Communist Party has relied heavily on propaganda to
   justify increasingly long lockdowns and burdensome testing requirements
   that can sometimes lead to three tests a week.

   The barrage of messages — online and on television, loudspeakers and
   social platforms — has become so overbearing that some citizens say it
   has drowned out their frustrations, downplayed the reality of the
   country’s tough coronavirus rules and, occasionally, bordered on the
   absurd.

   By Day 8 of a citywide lockdown in Shanghai this spring, Jason Xue had
   no more food left in his fridge. Yet when he clicked on the
   government’s social media account, he noticed that a top city official
   had vowed to “make every possible endeavor” to address food shortages.

   Government assistance didn’t show up until four weeks later, Mr. Xue
   said.

   “I was extremely angry, panicked and despairing,” said Mr. Xue, who
   works for a financial communications firm. He eventually turned to
   neighbors for help. “The propaganda was resolute and decisive, but it
   was different from the reality that we didn’t even know whether we
   could have the next meal.”

   Xi Jinping, China’s leader, has made controlling the virus a “top
   political priority.” Thousands of state media outlets and social media
   accounts have echoed Beijing’s “zero Covid” policy and praised the
   sacrifice of workers trying to control Covid-19.

   Image
   Lining up at a Covid testing booth in Beijing. On state television,
   Beijing often promotes its core Covid policies, which include
   lockdowns, mass testing and contact tracing.Credit...Gilles Sabrié for
   The New York Times

   Propaganda has long been one of the Chinese Communist Party’s favored
   tools for social control. But in the Covid era, the government’s use of
   it has been on overdrive. By some estimates, at least 120 Covid-related
   propaganda phrases have been created since the beginning of the
   pandemic.

   When certain terms risked upsetting large numbers of people, officials
   simply came up with new ones. The authorities, for example, have
   swapped the word “lockdown” with “static management,” “silence” or
   “working from home” when referring to certain Covid protocols.

   “Words shouldn’t be used that way,” Xiao Qiang, the founder of a
   California-based website that documents Chinese censorship, said in a
   phone interview. “The government embellished policies with political
   rhetoric, aiming to mitigate fallout.”

   The authorities now avoid words like “lockdown” because they want
   people to continue to obey stringent coronavirus measures without panic
   “ambiguous and awkward,” he said, which has contributed to confusion
   and frustration.

   When people tried to run away from quarantine buildings during an
   earthquake in Sichuan Province this year, epidemic workers were caught

   Videos of the episode were posted online and quickly deleted by
   censors, who said people should “at least bring masks before escaping
   from buildings,” even when an earthquake is “highly destructive.”

   For some, the video was a reminder of how the government had used the
   pandemic to tighten its grip on their private lives, telling them when
   they can leave their apartments, what kind of food they can buy and
   what hospitals they can enter.

   Kong Lingwanyu, a 22-year-old marketing intern in Shanghai, was upset
   that officials used the phrase “unless necessary” when describing
   restrictions around things like leaving the home, dining out or
   gathering with others.

   Ms. Kong said a local official responsible for carrying out coronavirus
   policies had told her that she should not “buy unnecessary food.” She
   said she asked the official what standards the government used to
   determine what kind of food was necessary.

   Image
   A fence closing off a residential area in Shanghai, which was placed
   under a citywide lockdown in April.Credit...Aly Song/Reuters

   “Who are you to decide the ‘necessity’ for others?” she said. “It’s
   totally absurd and nonsense.”

   On state television, Beijing’s “nine storm fortification actions”
   around the pandemic are frequently repeated to keep people in line with
   Covid policies. The nine actions are: neighborhood lockdowns, mass
   testing, contact tracing, disinfection, quarantine centers, increased
   health care capacity, traditional Chinese medicine, screening of
   neighborhoods and prevention of local transmission.

   Yang Xiao, a 33-year-old cinematographer in Shanghai who was confined
   to his apartment for two months during a lockdown this year, had grown
   tired of them all.

   “With the Covid control, propaganda and state power expanded and
   after day, Mr. Yang heard loudspeakers in his neighborhood repeatedly
   broadcasting a notice for P.C.R. testing. He said the announcements had
   disturbed his sleep at night and woke him up at dawn.

   “Our life was dictated and disciplined by propaganda and state power,”
   he said.

   To communicate his frustrations, Mr. Yang selected 600 common Chinese
   propaganda phrases, such as “core awareness,” “obey the overall
   situation” and “the supremacy of nationhood.” He gave each phrase a
   number and then put the numbers into Google’s Random Generator, a
   program that scrambles data.

   He ended up with senseless phrases such as “detect citizens’ life and
   death line,” “strictly implement functions” and “specialize overall
   plans without slack.” Then he used a voice program to read the phrases
   aloud and played the audio on a loudspeaker in his neighborhood.

   No one seemed to notice the five minutes of computer-generated
   nonsense.

   When Mr. Yang uploaded a video of the scene online, however, more than
   1.3 million people viewed it. Many praised the way he used government
   language as satire. Chinese propaganda was “too absurd to be criticized
   using logic,” Mr. Yang said. “I simulated the discourse like a mirror,
   reflecting its own absurdity.”

Spoofing Chinese propaganda:

   Credit...Yang Xiao

   “Obey the regulation of the overall situation”

   服从大局规律
   Credit...Yang Xiao

   “Restrain and assault fortified and overcome difficulties”

   制约攻坚克难
   Credit...Yang Xiao

   “Face up to the gap with a sense of danger and crisis”

   正视差距 忧患意识

   His video was taken down by censors.

   Mr. Yang added that he hoped to inspire others to speak out against
   China’s Covid policies and its use of propaganda in the pandemic. He
   wasn’t the only Shanghai resident to rebel when the city was locked
   down.

   In June, dozens of residents protested against the police and Covid
   control workers who installed chain-link fences around neighborhood
   apartments. When a protester was shoved into a police car and taken
   away, one man shouted: “Freedom! Equality! Justice! Rule of law!” Those
   words would be familiar to most Chinese citizens: They are commonly
   cited by state media as core socialist values under Mr. Xi.

   Zixu Wang covers news in China for The Times. He studied journalism in
   Hong Kong and international human rights law in the United States. He
   is currently based in Hong Kong. More about Zixu Wang
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section B, Page 1 of
   the New York edition with the headline: China’s Covid Propaganda, Often
   Seen as Absurd, Stirs Rebellion. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper |
   Subscribe

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
