   #alternate alternate alternate alternate

CNN values your feedback

   1. How relevant is this ad to you?
   2. Did you encounter any technical issues?
   Video player was slow to load content [ ] Video content never loaded
   after ad [ ] Audio on ad was too loud [ ] Other issues [ ]
   Ad never loaded [ ] Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading [ ]
   Content moved around while ad loaded [ ] Ad was repetitive to ads I've
   seen previously [ ] Other issues [ ]

   Thank You!
   Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much
   appreciated.
   Close


   Markets
   Tech
   Media
   Calculators
   Videos
   More
   Markets Tech Media Calculators Videos

   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   Live TV Audio

   Edition
   US
   International
   Arabic
   Español
   Edition

   Markets
   Tech
   Media
   Calculators
   Videos
   Follow CNN Business


   Markets
   DOW
   S&P 500
   NASDAQ

   Fear & Greed Index
   ----- is driving the US market

   Latest Market News
   One product, so many prices: Unit price, list price, ‘MSRP.’ Which one
   matters at the checkout?
   CosMc’s: Why McDonald’s wants its own coffee chain
   ‘It’s lending on steroids’: How Buy Now, Pay Later companies are
   meeting an influx of demand despite higher costs
   Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later.

   Business / Tech

Democrats accuse X of profiting from Hamas propaganda

   Brian Fung
   By Brian Fung and Samantha Delouya, CNN
   3 minute read
   Updated 6:06 PM EST, Wed November 22, 2023
   Link Copied!

   This photo illustration shows the X logo (formerly Twitter) on a
   smartphone screen in Los Angeles, California, on July 31, 2023. San
   Francisco sent the company formerly known as Twitter a warning on July
   31, 2023, that it needed proper permits for the giant, flashing new X
   sign atop its headquarters, after the tech firm twice refused to let
   building inspectors check it. (Photo by Chris Delmas / AFP) (Photo by
   CHRIS DELMAS/AFP via Getty Images)
   In this photo illustration, the X logo is shown on a smartphone screen
   in Los Angeles, California, on July 31, 2023.
   Chris Delmas/AFP/Getty Images
   Washington CNN  —

   A group of House Democrats has accused X, the platform formerly known
   as Twitter, of profiting from Hamas propaganda and misinformation about
   the Israel-Hamas war after reports by independent researchers found
   numerous accounts glorifying the US-sanctioned terror group.

   More than two dozen US lawmakers signed the letter dated Tuesday
   addressed to X owner Elon Musk and CEO Linda Yaccarino.

   Citing analyses by groups including the Institute for Strategic
   Dialogue, NewsGuard and the Tech Transparency Project, Tuesday’s letter
   said lawmakers were “outraged by the clear indicators that X is
   profiting from the spread of Hamas’s terrorist propaganda — both
   through monthly subscription fees collected from some propaganda
   spreaders, and through ads displayed in replies to posts by both
   Premium and regular accounts.”

   One of the reports in question, published last month, claimed to
   have identified examples of paid X subscribers sharing videos bearing
   Hamas iconography and depicting violent or gruesome images. Another
   report claimed to have identified dozens of paid X subscriber accounts
   promoting “false or unsubstantiated narratives relating to the war” and
   that posts spreading the misinformation had been viewed at least 100
   million times globally.

   “Given X’s major cuts to content moderation staff over the last year,
   it appears that X has willfully permitted, and benefited from, the
   illegal spread of terrorist propaganda,” wrote the group, led by Reps.
   Adam Schiff of California, Daniel Goldman of New York and Jamie Raskin
   social media platforms is wholly unacceptable.”

   X didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment about the
   lawmakers’ accusations.

   A new report released by NewsGuard on Wednesday claimed that ads for 86
   major advertisers, including Pizza Hut, Airbnb and Microsoft, were
   shown on viral posts that pushed false or misleading claims about the
   Israel-Hamas war. The posts were seen by a total of 92 million users on
   X, according to NewsGuard.

   X released a statement in advance of the NewsGuard report’s
   publication, calling its findings into question. X could not be reached
   for further comment Wednesday evening.

   On Tuesday, Musk abruptly announced that X would be donating “all
   revenue from advertising & subscriptions associated with the war in
   Gaza to hospitals in Israel and the Red Cross/Crescent in Gaza.” But it
   was unclear what content he was referring to and whether the
   announcement was directly related to the lawmakers’ letter. X Head of
   Business Operations Joe Benarroch declined to clarify the company’s
   plans beyond saying the donation would be “a sizeable amount.”

   The pressure from House Democrats comes amid a wider blowback to X over
   extremist content on the platform, in some cases amplified directly by
   Musk himself. In recent days, X has suffered a notable exodus of
   high-profile advertisers following Musk’s public embrace of an
   antisemitic conspiracy theory popular with White supremacists and a
   report by Media Matters, the progressive media watchdog group, that
   said major brands’ advertisements appeared beside pro-Nazi content.

   Musk sued Media Matters on Monday, accusing it of distorting the
   likelihood that ads may be shown against extremist material. But some
   legal critics have cast doubt on the complaint, calling it “weak” and
   “bogus” in the face of the First Amendment.

   Tuesday’s letter also highlights the mounting public scrutiny of
   Yaccarino, who until now has sought to position herself as a cheery
   counterweight to Musk’s flirtation with far-right extremism. The letter
   calls for Yaccarino and Musk to answer by December 1 to allegations
   that X has amplified terrorist propaganda in violation of its own
   policies.

   It comes a day after the Senate Judiciary Committee said it had
   enlisted the US Marshals Service, in a rare move, to serve Yaccarino
   with a subpoena personally, compelling her to testify at a December 6
   hearing on children’s online safety. In a release, the committee said
   it was forced to take that extraordinary measure after X declined to
   accept the subpoena on Yaccarino’s behalf, in a “remarkable departure
   from typical practice.”

   Related

More from CNN Business

   A sign for the University of Pennsylvania on campus in Philadelphia,
   Pennsylvania, US, on Friday, Dec. 8, 2023.
   Michelle Gustafson/Bloomberg/Getty Images
   Two students claim the University of Pennsylvania has violated the
   Civil Rights Act by not protecting Jewish students from antisemitism on
   campus
   Dec 09, 2023
   Dr. Claudine Gay, President of Harvard University, testifies before the
   House Education and Workforce Committee at the Rayburn House Office
   Building on December 05, 2023 in Washington, DC. The Committee held a
   hearing to investigate antisemitism on college campuses.
   Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
   Harvard president apologizes for her disastrous testimony at
   antisemitism hearing: ‘Words matter’
   Dec 09, 2023

CNN Business Videos

   Liz Magill, President of University of Pennsylvania, testifies before
   the House Education and Workforce Committee at the Rayburn House Office
   Building on December 05, 2023 in Washington, DC. The Committee held a
   hearing to investigate antisemitism on college campuses.
   Kevin Dietsch/Getty Images
   ‘Disastrous testimony’: Critics call on UPenn’s president to resign
   after testimony on antisemitism
   Dec 09, 2023
   exp Jobs economy guest live 120803PSEG1 cnni biz_00012001.png
   U.S. economy adds 199,000 jobs in November
   Dec 08, 2023
   FST African voices changemakers 122
   How this skydiver aims to elevate air sports in South Africa
   Dec 08, 2023
   exp 60 Second Economy Mauritius_00001101.png
   60 Second Economy Mauritius
   Dec 08, 2023


   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   Live TV Audio


   Audio Live TV
   Follow CNN Business

   My Account

   Your CNN account Log in to your CNN account

   Most stock quote data provided by BATS. US market indices are shown in
   real time, except for the S&P 500 which is refreshed every two minutes.
   All times are ET. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. All rights
   reserved. Chicago Mercantile: Certain market data is the property of
   Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights
   reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to
   and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary
   Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor’s and S&P are registered trademarks
   registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content
   and/or its affiliates. Fair value provided by IndexArb.com. Market
   holidays and trading hours provided by Copp Clark Limited.

   Terms of Use Privacy Policy Ad Choices Accessibility & CC About
   Newsletters Transcripts

   Reserved.
   CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.
