   IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on

   Opinion, Analysis, Essays



   Opinion, Analysis, Essays

   Follow think

   MORE FROM NBC



   Search


   Culture & Lifestyle

How Buffalo suspect's hateful propaganda connects Black Americans and Jews

   A 180-page document purportedly written by the shooter highlights how
   antisemitism can motivate white nationalist violence — even when Jews
   are not targeted.
   Bullet holes are seen in the window of Tops Friendly Market at
   Jefferson Avenue and Riley Street, as federal investigators work the
   scene of a mass shooting on May 16, 2022 in Buffalo, N.Y.
   Bullet holes are seen in the window of Tops Friendly Market as federal
   investigators work the scene of a mass shooting on May 16, 2022 in
   Buffalo, N.Y.Kent Nishimura / Los Angeles Times via Getty Images
   May 18, 2022, 4:24 PM UTC
   By Shane Burley

   The news alerts rolling in from Buffalo, New York, on Saturday all had
   a revolting familiarity. An 18-year-old man who espoused white
   nationalist views was suspected of storming into the local Tops grocery
   store and unloading his rifle on the mostly Black shoppers, killing 10
   and injuring several others. Police reported the barrel of the
   suspect’s gun was adorned with a racial slur. In the wake of similar
   shootings in Christchurch, New Zealand; Pittsburgh; Poway, California;
   and so many other cities, the 180-page document purportedly written by
   the suspect felt as predictable as it was hateful. This was
   particularly true for one of the most powerful narratives running
   through the ignorant, rageful document: a loathing toward Jews.

   In these theories of white domination, racial hierarchies and modern
   “degeneracy,” Jews are a vital piece of the apocalyptic conspiracy
   puzzle.

   The Tops shooting was clearly an act of anti-Blackness. But it’s
   notable that antisemitism often acts as the ideological center of white
   nationalist rhetoric, the force that turns racist rage into a
   semi-organized global theory. In the fevered imaginations of these
   racist fascists, Jews run the world as a secret, cabalistic elite, and
   they are using nonwhite people as a weapon to destroy the gentile white
   population. In these theories of white domination, racial hierarchies
   and modern “degeneracy,” Jews are a vital piece of the apocalyptic
   conspiracy puzzle. Because as writers like Eric Ward have illustrated,
   the neo-Nazi belief that whites are being destroyed requires an
   allegedly intelligent and powerful puppet master.

   While Jews made up a sizable portion of the document, they were not the
   target of the shooter’s violence, just as they weren’t targeted during
   the Christchurch massacre or the shooting in 2019 in El Paso, Texas.
   Even when Jews are not the target of violence, antisemitism can help
   motivate white nationalist violence against communities of color and
   immigrants.

   As University of Washington Bothell professor Dan Berger explained
   around Donald Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, antisemitism has
   played a central role in the growing American far right, except Jews
   are not its primary victims. Conspiracy theories about people like
   George Soros, shadowy elites and cabals of satanic pedophiles (as found
   in the QAnon theory) follow the ideological legacy of earlier
   antisemitic theories like blood libel and the antisemitic forgery “The
   Protocols of the Elders of Zion.”

   The “great replacement theory” is quickly becoming one of the more
   lethal contemporary theories, after being cited in multiple mass
   shootings. In its more extreme iterations, the theory alleges that a
   shadowy group of elites are increasing immigration of nonwhite people
   in an effort to “replace” native-born whites in the U.S. (Although
   conservatives as mainstream as members of Congress and Fox News host
   Tucker Carlson have referenced this theory in various ways, it is
   really just the more polite version of what has become known as “white
   genocide” propaganda.)

   When these conspiracy theories — which alternate between coded and
   explicit references to Jews — are not being used to justify murder,
   they can be found underpinning many of the right wing’s most ridiculous
   talking points. The LGBTQ movement, particularly recent anti-trans
   activism, is slandered as the pawns of these corrupt oligarchs who are
   looking to destroy our traditional ways of life. Critical race theory
   is dismissed as simply a “cultural Marxist” threat designed
   to undermine national pride. Migrant caravans are being funded by Soros
   so Democrats can take over our country. Our election was stolen by
   secret elites, our wildfires caused by Rothschilds, our children under
   assault from drug-fueled blood drinkers.


   Here we see very clearly exposed the intersections between different
   types of racism and bigotry, and how one is usually not far behind the
   accused of dousing the side of a mosque with an accelerant before
   striking a flame.

   Obviously, the antisemitism in the reported Buffalo document should not
   shift our attention away from the anti-Blackness, which is also a
   foundational part of the American white nationalist legacy. It should
   instead speak to the importance of cross-cultural solidarity: The only
   way to build a culture of safety is to see racism, oppression and
   violence as permanently intertwined. This gives all of us a stake when
   fighting the twin social diseases of antisemitism and racism.

   While antisemitic and racist conspiracy theories historically have
   lurked around the fringes of right-wing politics, shifts in the
   Republican Party are allowing them to become a central principle.

   While antisemitic and racist conspiracy theories historically have
   lurked around the fringes of right-wing politics, shifts in the
   Republican Party are allowing them to become a central principle of the
   new conservative political and media coalition.

   Politicians like Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia have brought
   antisemitic conspiracy theories and QAnon into Washington, while
   lawmakers like Rep. Paul Gosar of Arizona and Arizona state Sen. Wendy
   Rogers are addressing conferences run by white nationalists. And as
   mentioned earlier, Tucker Carlson has become the most popular talk show
   to inculcate the electorate with this pernicious worldview.

   Antisemitism acts as the nexus point for these ideas, the force that
   gives it coherence and pushes the racists in the midst to pick up a gun
   and take desperate action.


   The far right is hoping to build up its white genocide conspiracy
   theory as a totalizing narrative about the world and use it as a
   battering ram against all marginalized people. But we can fight back.
   Shane Burley

   Shane Burley is a journalist based in Portland, Oregon. He is the
   author of "Fascism Today: What It Is and How to End It" (AK Press,
   2017), and his work has appeared in Al Jazeera, The Baffler, Bandcamp,
   Truthout, Jacobin, In These Times, Full Stop and other publications.
