   #alternate Russia Takes Its Ukraine Information War Into Video Games

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Technology


   Today’s Paper

Russia-Ukraine War


   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Russia Takes Its Ukraine Information War Into Video Games

   Propaganda is appearing in Minecraft and other popular games and
   discussion groups as the Kremlin tries to win over new audiences.

   Three video military tanks are aligned side by side in a large plaza
   that is decorated with Soviet insignia. The year 1945 appears on a wall
   In the Russian version of the World of Tanks video game, a recreation
   YouTube
   Steven Lee Myers Kellen Browning

   By Steven Lee Myers and Kellen Browning

   Reporting from San Francisco
   July 30, 2023

   Russian propaganda is spreading into the world’s video games.

   In Minecraft, the immersive game owned by Microsoft, Russian players
   re-enacted the battle for Soledar, a city in Ukraine that Russian
   forces captured in January, posting a video of the game on their
   country’s most popular social media network, VKontakte.

   A channel on the Russian version of World of Tanks, a multiplayer
   warfare game, commemorated the 78th anniversary of the defeat of Nazi
   Germany in May with a recreation of the Soviet Union’s parade of tanks
   in Moscow in 1945. On Roblox, the popular gaming platform, a user
   created an array of Interior Ministry forces in June to celebrate the
   national holiday, Russia Day.

   These games and adjacent discussion sites like Discord and Steam are
   becoming online platforms for Russian agitprop, circulating to new,
   mostly younger audiences a torrent of propaganda that the Kremlin has
   used to try to justify the war in Ukraine.

   In this virtual world, players have adopted the letter Z, a symbol of
   the Russian troops who invaded last year; embraced legally specious
   Russian territorial claims in Crimea and other places; and echoed
   President Vladimir V. Putin’s efforts to denigrate Ukrainians as Nazis
   and blame the West for the conflict.

   “Glory to Russia,” declared a video tutorial on how to construct a
   flagpole with a Russian flag on Minecraft. It showed a Russian flag
   Russia has illegally annexed.

   “The gaming world is really a platform that can impact public opinion,
   to reach an audience, especially young populations,” said Tanya Bekker,
   a researcher at ActiveFence, a cybersecurity company that identified
   several examples of Russian propaganda on Minecraft for The New York
   Times.

   Image
   In Minecraft, Russian players re-enacted the battle for Soledar in
   Ukraine.Credit...via VKontakte

   Microsoft’s president, Brad Smith, disclosed in April that the
   company’s security teams had identified recent Russian efforts
   “basically to penetrate some of these gaming communities,” citing
   examples in Minecraft and in Discord discussion groups. He said
   Microsoft had advised governments, which he did not name, about them,
   but he played down their significance.

   “In truth, it’s not the No. 1 thing we should worry about,” Mr. Smith
   said at an economic conference in Washington organized by Semafor, the
   news site. “They’re going to publish information somewhere. You know,
   it just happens to be a good place for them to get the information into
   circulation.”

   The head of Microsoft’s threat analysis team, Clint Watts, told
   researchers at New York University’s Stern School of Business that the
   Russian paramilitary force known as the Wagner Group promoted “malign
   narratives” on Discord and Steam to support the Kremlin’s views. It may
   have also sought to encourage enlistments when Russian combat
   casualties were taking an enormous toll.

   “The propaganda mainly seeks to make Wagner and the Russian military
   look cool and menacing,” Mr. Watts told the researchers, who were
   examining extremism in video games.

   Microsoft declined to elaborate on its executives’ comments or to
   respond to questions about the Russian examples except to say in a
   statement that the company reviews content that violates its community
   standards.

   Although some of the material reflects the views of ordinary Russians,
   into video games shows how tenaciously Mr. Putin’s government has
   sought to bolster its political goals by using Western social media and
   consumer products despite diplomatic and economic isolation.

   In June, celebrities, musicians and at least one Russian government
   advisory body, and the head of the Russian Internet Safety League. Her
   mother, Yelena, serves in the upper house of Parliament and has been a
   prominent ally of Mr. Putin’s, sponsoring conservative legislation
   targeting, among other things, homosexuality.

   Other memes appearing in games are sympathetic to the Wagner Group,
   which was led by Yevgeny V. Prigozhin until a mysterious military
   mutiny unraveled last month. Mr. Prigozhin, once a close ally of Mr.
   Putin’s, is a veteran of information operations, having founded the
   Internet Research Agency, the St. Petersburg company that interfered in
   the American presidential election in 2016.

   This month, Mr. Putin underscored the Kremlin’s interest in the gaming
   industry as a potential tool for the government to instill values. He
   called it “a colossal business” in remarks to a civic organization he
   founded in 2018 to focus on youth social and economic issues. One in
   four Russians plays games online, according to a deputy prime minister
   who spoke at the same meeting. Mr. Putin said games “should be at the
   intersection of art and education.”

   “A game should help a person develop, help him find himself, should
   help educate a person both within the framework of universal human
   values and within the framework of patriotism,” Mr. Putin said in
   remarks in the Kremlin.

   In the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Microsoft
   announced that it would suspend new sales of products and services to
   Russia to comply with sanctions imposed by the United States and
   Europe, but Russians have continued to find ways to use its games and
   sites like Discord and Steam to reach broader audiences. Many of the
   examples are in Russian, suggesting that the intended audience is at
   home or among Russian speakers in neighboring countries, including
   Ukraine.

   “Russian propaganda is trying new things to promote its regime,” said
   Artem Starosiek, the head of Molfar, a Ukrainian consultancy that
   analyzes online threats.

   Image
   On Roblox, a gaming platform, a user created an array of Interior
   Ministry forces to celebrate Russia Day.Credit...via YouTube

   Molfar’s researchers identified more than a dozen instances of
   pro-Kremlin propaganda in Minecraft, Roblox, the Russian versions of
   World of Tanks and World of Warships, Fly Corp, Armored Warfare and War
   Thunder. Almost all extolled the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany, a
   theme Mr. Putin and his advisers have used to build support for today’s
   war. Some of it had explicit links to political parties or government
   agencies.

   It is not clear what steps, if any, Microsoft or other companies have
   taken to block Russian efforts. Wargaming Group, the Cyprus-based
   creator of World of Tanks, World of Warships and other games, spun off
   its Russian and Belarusian business last year to Lesta Studio, a
   subsidiary in St. Petersburg. “Wargaming is vehement in the support of
   the people of Ukraine, our studio in Kiev and our employees there,”
   Alex Brewer-Disarufino, a spokesman for Wargaming in North America,
   said in an email.

   Jacob Davey, the head of research of far-right and hate movements at
   the Institute for Strategic Dialogue in London, said Minecraft and
   vulnerable young people, especially if those people had already sorted
   themselves into private groups where they were eager to discuss fringe
   ideologies.

   “We know that hostile actors who are seeking to shape minds and
   influence people are opportunistic,” said Mr. Davey, who has studied
   the gamification of extremist content online. “They go where they think
   they might find a receptive audience, and they adopt a wide range of
   tech platforms to push their messaging out.”

   Giving the martial nature of many games, it is not surprising that the
   war in Ukraine would have an influence on content, but in some cases,
   the games have become a battleground.

   A company in Germany made a video game, Death From Above, that
   simulates Ukrainian drone attacks on Russian forces. The company’s
   Sanomat, used the video game Counter-Strike to create a conduit for
   factual information about the war to a Russian audience largely
   shielded from it.

   “Could we create a place in Counter-Strike where the millions of young
   Russian men playing this first-person shoot game would be forced to
   face the terrors of the war in Ukraine?” the newspaper asked in an
   interactive feature.

   Joseph Brown, an assistant professor at Thompson Rivers University in
   British Columbia, spent five years teaching about video game
   development in Russia, and said he had seen firsthand the country’s
   commitment to propaganda through video games and other forms of media.

   “They need to get everybody back on board with the war,” Dr. Brown
   said. “It’s another piece of this whole puzzle of constant propaganda,
   all the time. In every single medium they can get to you with, they
   will get to you.”

   Steven Lee Myers covers misinformation for The Times. He has worked in
   Washington, Moscow, Baghdad and Beijing, where he contributed to the
   articles that won the Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2021. He is
   also the author of “The New Tsar: The Rise and Reign of Vladimir
   Putin.” More about Steven Lee Myers

   Kellen Browning is a technology reporter in San Francisco, where he
   covers the gig economy, the video game industry and general tech news.
   More about Kellen Browning
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section B, Page 1 of
   the New York edition with the headline: Russia Takes Propaganda Into
   Gaming. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
