   #VOA - Top Stories [RSS]


   analytics

Accessibility links


   please wait

Print Options:



   Link has been copied to clipboard

       U.S. News All About America Silicon Valley & Technology Immigration
       Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central
       Asia

Follow Us

   Languages
   site logo site logo
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next

   Press Freedom

Russian Propaganda Presents Fringe Views in US as Mainstream

   November 22, 2023 3:48 PM

   A screen shot of Russia's RIA Novosti website on Nov. 23, 2023. RIA
   Novosti is one of the state-owned outlets that picks up fringe content
   and out-of-context headlines from U.S. media to bolster Kremlin
   narratives
   A screen shot of Russia's RIA Novosti website on Nov. 23, 2023. RIA
   Novosti is one of the state-owned outlets that picks up fringe content
   and out-of-context headlines from U.S. media to bolster Kremlin
   narratives

   Share


   Russian Propaganda Presents Fringe Views in US as Mainstream

   share


   From headlines taken out of context to the framing of fringe figures as
   representative of wider American views, Russian state-run outlets are
   cherry-picking U.S. content to back up Kremlin narratives.

   And it comes with results. Headlines such as “Biden accused of
   concealing extent of corruption in Ukraine” and “US highlights NATO
   inability to withstand Russia for extended period” regularly propel
   state-run stories into the top five spots on Russian search engines,
   with a potential reach of millions of views.

   Americans regularly cited by Russian media include former Fox News
   commentator Tucker Carlson, Republican Representative James Comer, and
   members of “The Squad,” a group of Democrats who push more leftist
   ideals in Congress.

   Extremes of the political spectrum are wrapped into Russian
   disinformation efforts to both amplify issues and lend an air of
   legitimacy to anti-Western and anti-Ukrainian narratives, said Nina
   Jankowicz, vice president of the Centre for Information Resilience and
   a former disinformation chief under the Biden administration.

   “We see Russia identifying individuals on the left or right of the
   political spectrum who might already be critics of NATO, critics of
   Ukraine,” Jankowicz told VOA.

   That strategy is employed by Vladimir Soloviev, a Russian TV presenter
   whose Telegram channel has more than a million subscribers. Soloviev
   gained notoriety by advocating for the invasion of Ukraine, actively
   supporting President Vladimir Putin and promoting the idea of nuclear
   warfare against the West.
   FILE - Tucker Carlson, shown here in Bedminster, N.J., on July 31,
   2022, is one of the American commentators who figure prominently in
   Russian state-run media.
   FILE - Tucker Carlson, shown here in Bedminster, N.J., on July 31,
   2022, is one of the American commentators who figure prominently in
   Russian state-run media.

   To reinforce those views, he regularly references Carlson. A search by
   VOA for Carlson references on the Telegram account between June 2020
   and November 2023 returned more than 230 instances. The number of
   references spiked following the full-scale invasion.

   The key narratives of Carlson selected by Soloviev and Russian
   propaganda channels include the conservative pundit’s false claims that
   Christians in Ukraine are persecuted, that America’s white population
   is oppressed and Tucker’s characterization of some U.S. media coverage

   Other outlets take fringe commentators most Americans are unlikely to
   have heard and present them as having a wider influence.

   These are often used to reinforce Russia’s narrative of a “declining”
   West, with state-run media citing figures such as Jackson Hinkle and
   Jack Posobiec, who are largely unknown in the United States but are
   favored among the far right and in conspiracy circles on X, formerly
   Twitter.

   RIA Novosti, for instance, highlighted Posobiec's mocking comment about
   Kyiv's interest in Abrams tanks, presenting it as a view from a
   respected veteran and combining it with a quote from Putin emphasizing
   Moscow's purported aim to end, not escalate, the conflict.

   Similarly, Russian news outlet Lenta.Ru used a headline quoting
   Hinkle's suggestion that the Ukrainian Armed Forces' counteroffensive
   be labeled as a suicide mission.

   And Soloviev frequently references both Americans in his Telegram
   channel, portraying them as influential bloggers, talk show hosts, or
   renowned U.S. journalists.

   The approach helps Russia create the appearance of more significant
   support for opinions that — according to analysts who spoke with VOA —
   are better characterized as fringe views.

   And it can lead regular Russians to believe the views are more
   representative of how most Americans think, Jankowicz said.

   Outlets such as Breitbart and Fox News on the right and The Grayzone on
   the left are also used by Russian state media, with stories circulating
   between the Russian and U.S. organizations, she said.

   Jankowicz said that while she was in her role on the U.S.
   Disinformation Governance Board, American right-wing media outlets
   falsely characterized the board’s role as being to censor Americans.

   “This was absolutely not true, and within a couple of days after that,
   we saw [the same report] on Russian Channel One with the same quotes,
   the same pictures, the same narratives overarching,” Jankowicz said.

   The disinformation governance board — formed by the U.S. Homeland
   Security Department to counter misinformation — was disbanded after

   Featuring statements from American figures and media outlets lends a
   sense of credibility, she said.

   “Showing these extreme viewpoints also hammers home the ideas about
   Ukraine or about U.S. foreign policy that the Kremlin wants its
   audiences to believe,” Jankowicz said.

   Dominik Stecula, an assistant professor of political science at
   Colorado State University who focuses on political polarization, has
   seen similar trends. Stecula said the commentator Carlson has repeated
   Russian propaganda narratives on his TV show.

   But Carlson’s departure from Fox in April, along with a shift in media
   attention to other news stories such as the Israeli-Hamas conflict,
   slightly changed the U.S. media landscape on the right, Stecula said.
   “Whoever is filling in his shoes hasn't really spent as much time on
   this topic at all. The general focus on Ukraine dissipated.”

   Another aspect that unites some far-left and far-right political actors
   is populism, Stecula said. “They were repeating some of the Russian
   propaganda about Ukraine, about politicians in Ukraine, like President

   The academic said that far-right actors in the U.S. root their
   narratives primarily in the idea of America-first nationalism, while
   those on the far left see it “through the lens of American imperialism
   wielded through the power of NATO.”

   Overall, Carlson, Elon Musk and niche bloggers such as Hinkle and
   Posobiec have significant influence within their respective ideological
   echo chambers, Stecula said.
   U.S. Representative Ilhan Omar, shown here in Washington on Nov. 13,
   2023, is one of a group of congresswomen from the Democratic left whose
   words are frequently used in Russian state-run media.
   U.S. Representative Ilhan Omar, shown here in Washington on Nov. 13,
   2023, is one of a group of congresswomen from the Democratic left whose
   words are frequently used in Russian state-run media.

   At the same time, members of "The Squad" — U.S. Congresswomen
   Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley and Rashida Tlaib
   — have substantial influence within the Democratic Party, while not
   wholly representing the party's mainstream, Stecula said.

   “They're not just your average social media influencer,” Stecula said.
   “These are people with significant platforms and actual positions of
   power. Which is why it was disappointing to see some of their behavior
   during the initial months of the Russian invasion and Ukraine, when
   they were taking stands aligned with some of right-wing Republicans.”

   What the Russian invasion of Ukraine really highlighted, the academic
   noted, is that populism and a rejection of the mainstream have
   significantly united those on America’s far left and far right.

   Jankowicz said that while a certain percentage of Americans may share
   the views of some of these people, the reality is that opinion is far
   more varied.

   “And so, I think showing these extreme viewpoints also hammers home the
   ideas about Ukraine or about U.S. foreign policy that the Kremlin wants
   its audiences to believe,” she said.

   This article originated in VOA’s Russian Service.

Related

       America US Seeks to Preempt Russian Influence Operation Targeting
       Latin America

US Seeks to Preempt Russian Influence Operation Targeting Latin America
       Online Moscow Newspaper Latest in Russia's List of 'Foreign Agents'

Online Moscow Newspaper Latest in Russia's List of 'Foreign Agents'
       Russian City of Tomsk

Navalny Ally Jailed in Russian City of Tomsk

Latest Press Freedom Stories

       mother after the verdict in a Ferghana criminal court, Uzbekistan,
       Dec. 1, 2023. Uzbek blogger Olimjon Haydarov, right, puts his arm
       around his mother after the verdict in a Ferghana criminal court,
       Uzbekistan, Dec. 1, 2023.

Criticized Over Blogger Arrests, Uzbekistan Denies It's a Free Speech Issue
       Conflict  Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in
       Israel-Hamas Conflict

Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in Israel-Hamas Conflict
       A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

Kremlin Propaganda on Uptick in Latin America
       in Washington, D.C., Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA) FILE - The U.S. Agency
       for Global Media logo at Voice of America, in Washington, D.C.,
       Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA)

Senate Approves USAGM Board
       interview with Reuters at the Presidential Office in Seoul, South
       Korea, April 18, 2023. FILE - South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol
       speaks during an interview with Reuters at the Presidential Office
       in Seoul, South Korea, April 18, 2023.

Under Yoon, South Korea Defamation Cases Against Media Rise

Special Reports

       Mexico. Comic book panels of a photojournalist taking a photo.
       Illustrated poster image for VOA press freedom story on Tijuana,
       Mexico. Comic book panels of a photojournalist taking a photo.

Risk and Reward - Covering Violence in Tijuana, Mexico

The Afghan Journalists Who Stayed
       Mechanism - For Mexican Media, Crime Beat Can Be a Killer

The Mechanism - Covering Crime in Mexico's Most Dangerous States

Recommended


52 Documentary

   Back to top


   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
