   #alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-NX5LSK3

   Skip to main content

   The New Yorker

     * Newsletter

   To revisit this article, select My Account, then View saved stories
   (BUTTON) Close Alert
   Sign In
   Search

     * The Latest
     * 2023 in Review
     * News
     * Books & Culture
     * Fiction & Poetry
     * Humor & Cartoons
     * Magazine
     * Puzzles & Games
     * Video
     * Podcasts
     * Goings On
     * Shop

   (BUTTON) Open Navigation Menu

   Find anything you save across the site in your account
   (BUTTON) Close Alert
   The New Yorker

   News Desk

The Hamas Propaganda War

   Across the Arab world, the group is successfully selling its narrative
   of resistance.

   By David D. Kirkpatrick and Adam Rasgon
   October 30, 2023
   A still from a video of Qassam Brigade soldiers talking to an Israeli
   child sitting on a table.
   Hamas’s footage displays little comprehension of the audience in Israel
   and the West, yet to Palestinians and other Arab viewers it served its
   purpose.Source: Qassam Brigades / Telegram

   (BUTTON) Save this story
   (BUTTON) Save this story

   As Hamas fighters rampaged through Israeli villages outside Gaza on the
   morning of October 7th, killing roughly fourteen hundred people, some
   paused to take videos of themselves with Jewish children at Kibbutz
   Holit. In one piece of footage, a fighter in an Adidas T-shirt
   vigorously pats the back of a crying baby who is pressed against his
   shoulder—the same shoulder carrying his Kalashnikov. Another fighter,
   wearing a camouflage uniform, bandages the foot of an Israeli boy of
   toddler age, then puts the boy on his lap while jerking the crying baby
   back and forth in a stroller. A camera zooms in on the confused face of
   the boy as an unseen fighter, speaking broken English, instructs him to
   repeat the Arabic word meaning “in the name of God.” “Say bismillah,”
   the fighter says. The boy complies, in a soft Hebrew accent.

   Hamas released the bismillah video on a Telegram channel six days after
   the attack. At a moment when the Western news media, and some major
   Arab outlets, were full of reports about the many civilians who were
   slaughtered, and Israeli officials were likening Hamas to ISIS, the
   footage was apparently Hamas’s rebuttal. At one point in the video, a
   masked fighter holds up the two children and addresses the camera:
   “Look at the mercy in our hearts. These kids—we didn’t kill them like
   you do.” (At least six children died from rocket fire on October 7th,
   and Israel’s Channel 12 has named at least nineteen others killed by
   militants.)

   If Hamas meant to humanize its fighters to audiences in Israel or the
   West, the video was stunningly counterproductive. The group’s
   propagandists hid the identity of the fighters by blurring out their
   faces and, in most scenes, distorting their voices. The resulting
   faceless growls made them look and sound only more monstrous. The
   Kalashnikovs next to the children, the ungentle pushing of the
   stroller, the Jewish child goaded into Muslim prayer, the absence of
   the boys’ parents—the whole scene was alarming. (The children turned
   out to be brothers: Negev, who is three, and Eshel, who is about five
   months old. Their mother was killed in the raid, and their father was
   away. Hamas brought the children into Gaza, but released them almost
   immediately.)

   Michael Milshtein, a retired Israeli intelligence official who
   specializes in analyzing Palestinian media, told us that the bismillah
   video “demonstrates Hamas’s arrogance toward the West—that they think
   all Westerners are stupid, that, if they show images of these barbarian
   terrorists holding babies and hugging them, people in the West will
   say, ‘Oh, they are so sweet. We were wrong about them!’ It’s
   ridiculous.” Many Israelis have observed that their government’s
   vulnerability to the October 7th attack showed a profound failure to
   understand Hamas. Milshtein argued that Hamas’s release of the
   bismillah footage, which displays little comprehension of the audience
   in Israel and the West, proved that the misunderstanding was mutual.

   Yet to Palestinians and other Arab viewers—a very different audience,
   and one that is more important to Hamas—the awkward bismillah video
   served its purpose. It was posted to Al Jazeera’s Facebook page for
   Egypt, and has been viewed more than 1.4 million times. Nearly
   seventy-five thousand viewers have liked it, and nearly three thousand
   have left comments, many of them admiring. One commenter praised “the
   morals of the fighters of the Islamic resistance.”

   Source: Qassam Brigades / Telegram

   Three days later, another surreal video appeared, this one from an
   Israeli hostage who identifies herself as a twenty-one-year-old named
   Mia Shem. In the footage, her dazed eyes seemingly dart to read cue
   cards as she delivers a statement about the medical care that Hamas has
   provided for a serious wound to her arm. “They are taking care of me
   and giving me medicines, everything is fine,” she says flatly, avoiding
   the subject of who caused her injury in the first place. Since then,
   Hamas has released videos showing a few handovers of released
   hostages—including one in which an elderly Jewish Israeli bids “shalom”
   to her Palestinian captor.

   However unpersuasive or ham-fisted such propaganda might seem in the
   West, Ghaith al-Omari—a former adviser to the Western-backed
   Palestinian Authority and a longtime opponent of Hamas—told us that
   such videos had convinced many Arabs that the group’s fighters, unlike
   ISIS, “are humane and respect Islamic laws of war.” He added, “It has
   resonated throughout the Arab world. This is now the line you see not
   only in Hamas media but in most Arab media, in Jordan, Egypt, and North
   Africa. The dominant narrative has become the narrative of Hamas.”

   Hamas began shaping that narrative moments after its fighters streamed
   through the breached barriers surrounding Gaza. As the assault
   unfolded, a split screen on Hamas’s Al-Aqsa TV network juxtaposed
   footage of burning cars in Israeli towns with a video of a cluster of
   young Israeli men whose arms are tied behind their backs. A news
   anchor, addressing Palestinians everywhere, declared, “This picture is
   your picture, this might is your might, this flood is your flood, and
   this blessed action is for all of you!”

   A review of Hamas’s propaganda on October 7th makes clear that a major
   objective of the group’s assault was to spark a broader uprising among
   the Palestinians of the West Bank. After the news anchor delivered the
   “blessed action” soliloquy, the network cut to a recorded message from
   Saleh al-Arouri, the bellicose deputy chief of Hamas’s political
   bureau, who explicitly urged Palestinians to rise up against both the
   Israeli settlers in the West Bank and the soldiers protecting them. The
   Israeli military “won’t be able to attend to confrontations on other
   fronts,” Arouri said. “After today, no one can hold back his rifle,
   bullet, pistol, knife, car, or Molotov cocktail.” Similar calls for an
   uprising in the West Bank were made in statements released during the
   attack by the Hamas military commander Mohammed al-Deif and by the
   masked Hamas spokesman Abu Obeida. The statements were broadcast
   repeatedly on Al-Aqsa TV and on Al Jazeera.

   Although no West Bank uprising materialized, Hamas propagandists were
   still revelling days later in a triumph measured in bloodshed. On
   October 9th, as Israel was successfully repelling the last remaining
   Palestinian fighters from its territory, Shadi Asfour, a reporter for
   Al-Aqsa TV, announced from a hospital inside the Strip that “the men of
   the resistance are still clashing right now on the lands usurped in
   1948, in the occupied interior, and reports coming from those lands are
   that the morale is very high.” Israeli officials at the time had
   confirmed the deaths of more than seven hundred citizens. “We know that
   these numbers are certainly false,” Asfour said. “It will soon be
   acknowledged that the numbers are rising!”

   Observers on all sides of the conflict agree that Israel’s launch of a
   brutal air campaign against Gaza has rallied sympathy for the Strip’s
   beleaguered residents and buttressed Hamas’s story of heroic
   resistance. Talal Okal, a columnist in Gaza for the Ramallah-based
   newspaper Al-Ayyam, said of the media war, “Honestly and objectively,
   Israel defeated itself.”

   But Al Jazeera, owned by the rulers of Qatar, has done the most to
   disseminate images of the devastation caused by the air strikes. The
   network, which has more cameras in Gaza than any other news outlet, has
   repeatedly broadcast footage of bodies trapped in rubble and of
   anguished parents clutching children wrapped in shrouds. The network’s
   anchors and reporters have hewn closely to Hamas’s preferred vocabulary
   for the conflict, speaking about “resistance fighters” battling against
   an “occupation army.” One of Al Jazeera’s most prominent journalists,
   Majed Abdulhadi, celebrated Hamas’s attack as it happened by reciting a
   kind of prose poem: after rhapsodizing at length about the astonished
   surprise of an Israeli soldier who was captured in his tank, Abdulhadi
   concluded that, “in one fell swoop,” the assault had “wiped away dark
   layers of despair.” The video clip is still circulating on Arab social
   media, where it has been viewed by hundreds of thousands of people.

   Al Jazeera’s Gaza bureau chief, Wael al-Dahdouh, has covered many
   conflicts between Israel and Hamas, and the group’s leaders have
   sometimes saluted his coverage for conveying their perspective. In an
   interview on the network in 2021, Dahdouh, who is Palestinian, said
   that about twenty members of his family had been killed in clashes with
   Israel. (At least four relatives belonged to the militant group Islamic
   Jihad.) Dahdouh continued, “Perhaps this is among the difficult moments
   in the life of a Palestinian journalist—when he goes to report on an
   incident and discovers the incident is his brother or cousin.”

   On October 25th, Al Jazeera broadcast footage of Dahdouh on a Gaza
   rooftop, shrieking in agony while receiving a phone call telling him
   that an air strike on a refugee camp had hit his family. (It killed his
   wife, a sixteen-year-old son, and a six-year-old daughter.) A video
   posted on social media captured him moments later, at a hospital, still
   wearing his blue press flak jacket, as he cried over the shrouded body
   of his son. “Are you taking revenge through our kids?” he asked,
   staring into the camera. “They are child killers, no more, no
   less. . . . The army of occupation must be driven away!” On Friday,
   Dahdouh was on the air again, telling viewers that he saw “no escape”
   from his duty to report on Palestinian suffering.

   The other pan-Arab networks—Al Arabiya, which is controlled by the
   rulers of Saudi Arabia, and Sky News Arabia, which is controlled by the
   rulers of the United Arab Emirates—initially appeared to resist Hamas’s
   story line. The Saudis and the Emiratis loathe Hamas and its Islamist
   allies. The U.A.E. formalized diplomatic ties with Israel in 2020;
   Saudi Arabia has signalled that it expects to do the same. Al Arabiya
   and Sky News Arabia both started off broadcasting critical reports
   about what they called the Hamas attack. On October 8th, the Sky News
   Arabia journalist Nadim Koteich appeared to justify Israeli retaliation
   by comparing Hamas’s slaughter to Al Qaeda’s attack on the United
   States on September 11, 2001. The Hamas assault, Koteich said, was “a
   premeditated coup against the Arab-Israeli peace plan.”

   But as the Gaza death toll has climbed, and as Arab opinion has swung
   toward Hamas, the networks have seemingly capitulated to the feelings
   of their viewers. Putting aside “the Hamas attack,” newscasters now
   increasingly refer to the Israeli “war on Gaza.” And the networks have
   joined Al Jazeera in carrying extensive footage of suffering and
   carnage in Gaza. “Residents of a neighborhood in Gaza, most of them
   women and children, lying under the rubble,” an Al Arabiya headline
   declared, on October 26th. At the same moment, a chyron repeated a
   report, by the Hamas-controlled Gaza Health Ministry, saying that in
   the preceding hours another four hundred and eighty-one Palestinians
   had been killed by Israeli air strikes.

   When referring to dead Palestinians, both networks still appear to
   favor the relatively neutral term “victims.” But at one point Ahmad
   Harb, an Al Arabiya reporter in the Gazan city of Khan Younis, briefly
   spoke of eleven casualties as “martyrs”—the term that Palestinian
   groups invariably use to describe those killed in the conflict. Harb,
   apparently being interrupted by a producer speaking into his earpiece,
   quickly corrected himself, reverting to “victims.” On October 24th, the
   clip of his gaffe went viral on Arab social media, where it was
   portrayed as a glimpse of the effort by the network’s overseers to
   check the sympathies of their journalists in the field.

   Israel’s military dominance grows more evident by the day; according to
   officials of the Gaza Health Ministry, Israeli forces have killed more
   than eight thousand people. Yet Israeli, Palestinian, and Western
   analysts all told us, emphatically, that in the Middle East the winner
   of the propaganda war is Hamas.

   Ghassan Khatib, a political scientist at Birzeit University, in the
   West Bank, and a former official in the Palestinian Authority, told us
   that he plans to release poll results showing a jump in support for
   Hamas among West Bank Palestinians. “Hamas is getting more popular
   because it is perceived to be standing up to the oppressive Israeli
   occupation, and because of the brutal retaliation by Israel,” he said.
   Americans and Israelis, he added, sometimes assume that the current war
   began on October 7th. But Arabs, and especially Palestinians, had been
   paying closer attention in the preceding days and decades. Khatib told
   us that this audience sees the Hamas attack as retribution for decades
   of “piecemeal repression,” including the expansion of the Israeli
   settlements in the West Bank and the increase in settler violence
   against Palestinians. He noted, “People here accept a message that what
   Hamas did was a response to something that Israel has been doing every
   day for years and years.”

   As Arab opinion shifts toward Hamas, Arab leaders are growing more
   reluctant to buck it. A statement from the Arab League on October
   11th—which condemns “the killing and targeting of civilians on both
   sides,” including by Hamas—surprised many in the region. But on October
   24th, at a United Nations meeting on the conflict, that evenhandedness
   evaporated. Arab foreign ministers from across the region took turns
   fulminating against the human cost of the Israel air strikes; all
   avoided discussion of the ghastly role Hamas had played in setting off
   the latest round of conflict.

   Mahmoud Abbas, the President of the Palestinian Authority, recently
   spoke by phone with the President of Venezuela, and an initial readout
   released by the authority’s news agency describes Abbas as having said
   that Hamas’s actions and policies “don’t represent the Palestinian
   people.” Just a few moments later, however, this account of Abbas’s
   criticism of Hamas disappeared from the news site. Current and former
   officials of the authority told us that Abbas had demanded a
   retraction.

   Nasser al-Qudwa, a nephew of the late Palestinian leader Yassir Arafat
   and a former foreign minister of the Palestinian Authority, has long
   condemned Hamas. But in a phone interview he told us that he could no
   longer do so in public. “I’m not willing to criticize them now,” he
   said. “How could I while bombs fall on people’s heads?”

   For Israel, the growing embrace by Palestinians and other Arabs of
   Hamas’s self-portrayal—of outgunned resistance fighters revolting
   against an unjust occupation—compounds the difficulty of finding any
   path forward. Israeli leaders have vowed to “destroy” Hamas, but have
   declined to elaborate on what that means in practice. And how could
   Israel’s goal be achieved when the idea of Hamas is gaining more
   support each day of the war?

   Shibley Telhami, a political scientist at the University of Maryland
   who studies Arab public opinion, said that Israeli and American talk of
   destroying Hamas was playing into the group’s hands. Telhami told us,
   “When people in the Arab world hear ‘destroy Hamas,’ they think,
   ‘destroy Gaza.’ ” Telhami argued that unflinching American support for
   Israel’s retribution had now firmly tied Washington to the losing side
   of the propaganda war, adding, “In the Middle East and across the
   Global South, Joe Biden has become the same as the George W. Bush of
   the Iraq War. And, right now, there is no way around it.” ♦

New Yorker Favorites

     * The killer who got into Harvard.
     * The contested legacies of Napoleon.
     * Why 1956 was a radical year in hair dye.
     * The legends of Lizzie Borden.
     * The skyscraper that could have toppled over in a windstorm.
     * The day the dinosaurs died.
     * Fiction by Amy Tan: “Immortal Heart”

   Sign up for our daily newsletter to receive the best stories from The
   New Yorker.
   David D. Kirkpatrick is a staff writer for The New Yorker.
   Adam Rasgon is a member of The New Yorker’s editorial staff.
   More:HamasIsraelPalestineWarMedia

Daily

   Our flagship newsletter highlights the best of The New Yorker,
   including top stories, fiction, humor, and podcasts.
   E-mail address
   ____________________
   (BUTTON) Sign up

   By signing up, you agree to our User Agreement and Privacy Policy &
   Cookie Statement. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google
   Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

   Read More
   In the Cities of Killing
   Letter from Israel
   In the Cities of Killing
   In the Cities of Killing
   The Hamas massacre, the assaults on Gaza, and what comes after.

   By David Remnick
   What Was Hamas Thinking?
   News Desk
   What Was Hamas Thinking?
   What Was Hamas Thinking?
   One of the group’s senior political leaders explains its strategy.

   By Adam Rasgon
   Elon Musk’s Shadow Rule
   A Reporter at Large
   Elon Musk’s Shadow Rule
   Elon Musk’s Shadow Rule
   How the U.S. government came to rely on the tech billionaire—and is now
   struggling to rein him in.

   By Ronan Farrow
   Hasan Minhaj’s “Emotional Truths”
   Annals of Communications
   Hasan Minhaj’s “Emotional Truths”
   Hasan Minhaj’s “Emotional Truths”
   In his standup specials, the former “Patriot Act” host often recounts
   harrowing experiences he’s faced as an Asian American and Muslim
   American. Does it matter that much of it never happened to him?

   By Clare Malone

   The New Yorker

   (BUTTON) Sections
     * News
     * Books & Culture
     * Fiction & Poetry
     * Humor & Cartoons
     * Magazine
     * Crossword
     * Video
     * Podcasts
     * Archive
     * Goings On

   (BUTTON) More
     * Customer Care
     * Shop The New Yorker
     * Buy Covers and Cartoons
     * Condé Nast Store
     * Digital Access
     * Newsletters
     * Jigsaw Puzzle
     * RSS

     * About
     * Careers
     * Contact
     * F.A.Q.
     * Media Kit
     * Press
     * Accessibility Help

   © 2023 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes
   acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy and Cookie
   Statement and Your California Privacy Rights. The New Yorker may earn a
   portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as
   part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this
   site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or
   otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast.
   Ad Choices
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   (BUTTON) Do Not Sell My Personal Info
