   #VOA - Top Stories [RSS]


   analytics

Accessibility links


   please wait

Print Options:



   Link has been copied to clipboard

       U.S. News All About America Silicon Valley & Technology Immigration
       Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central
       Asia

Follow Us

   Languages
   site logo site logo
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next

   Africa

Can Civil Society and Private Organizations Combat Russian Propaganda in
Africa?

   September 18, 2023 9:41 AM

   Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, and Mozambique President
   Filipe Nyusi shake hands during a photo shoot at the Russia Africa
   Summit in St. Petersburg, Russia, July 28, 2023.
   Russian President Vladimir Putin, right, and Mozambique President
   Filipe Nyusi shake hands during a photo shoot at the Russia Africa
   Summit in St. Petersburg, Russia, July 28, 2023.

   Share


   Can Civil Society and Private Organizations Combat Russian Propaganda
   in Africa?

   share

   WASHINGTON —

   As Russia makes significant gains in its disinformation campaigns in
   Africa, experts say civil society groups and private organizations may
   hold the key to counter such propaganda.

   Since Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine two years ago, analysts say the
   Kremlin has been using disinformation spread through social media to
   court other nations as it faces global isolation.

   Dan Whitman, a foreign policy analyst and fellow at Philadelphia-based
   think tank Foreign Policy Research Institute, told VOA that Moscow has
   recently made “tremendous successes” in its disinformation campaigns on
   the continent, exploiting political instability in regions like the
   Sahel and Central Africa, and in nations like Mozambique.

   “I would say (in) two or three years, (Russia) has made the most rapid
   propaganda successes in the history of propaganda,” Whitman said,
   adding “instability is the Garden of Eden for disinformation.”

   Whitman says Russia doesn’t cause instability but takes advantage of
   existing instability, unlike other major powers. He said the difference
   is that “Russia is much more systematic, consequential, and much more
   strategic in the way they do this,” he said questioning Moscow’s true
   intentions in Africa. “Less than 1% of commercial exchange comes from
   Russia. So, in terms of material wealth, infrastructure, or really
   anything else, they have nothing to offer Africa.”

   Trade between Russia and Africa has increased, but it remains
   relatively small compared to trade with the European Union, China, and
   the United States.

   According to Washington-based think tank the Center for Strategic and
   International Studies, or CSIS, trade between Russia and Africa has
   nearly doubled to $17.7 billion by 2021, but Africa’s trade values with
   billion with China, and $65 billion with the U.S.

   Whitman also highlighted the worry of possible Russian interference in
   the 2024 U.S. elections, as in previous elections, emphasizing the need
   for a mechanism to hold the Kremlin accountable for its disinformation
   activities. He suggested empowering civil society groups and private
   European governments, to counter Russian disinformation.

   “I believe that small start-ups, private organizations and community
   groups like debunk.org in Lithuania, should be empowered to counter
   Russia’s disinformation. I hope they have open and transparent support
   from the U.S. government and governments of Western Europe,” Whitman
   told VOA.

   Neil Melvin, director of International Security Studies at the
   London-based Royal United Security Institute, or RUSI, says while
   Russia seeks to advance its propaganda narrative, describing its
   efforts as the “biggest propaganda victory ever,” may be an
   exaggeration — even as Russia takes an opportunistic approach in
   regions with instability, aiming to establish partnerships with
   military groups seeking power.

   “We saw that in Sudan, we’ve seen it recently in parts of Sahel and
   West Africa. Historically, they (Russia) have done it with Ethiopia,”
   he said. “I think that’s certainly part of the model, that’s quite
   disruptive, because, of course, it just accelerates instability.”

   Melvin says the primary objective of these partnerships in Africa is to
   secure resources, and Russia, through its paramilitary, the Wagner
   Group, seeks access to these resources.

   “It’s almost like a scavenging approach,” Melvin said.
   Wagner Group Leaves Trail of Destruction from Africa to Russia
   please wait
   Embed share

Wagner Group Leaves Trail of Destruction from Africa to Russia

   Embed share
   The code has been copied to your clipboard.

   width 640_________________ px height 360_________________ px


   The URL has been copied to your clipboard

   No media source currently available
   Download

   Fighting Disinformation

   Melvin said disinformation is not solely a Russian effort, as China and
   Iran also engage in state-backed disinformation campaigns, which many
   countries struggle to effectively counter.

   “Civil society becomes almost a security asset because they challenge
   the disinformation that sometimes is coming down mainstream channels,”
   he told VOA’s English to Africa Service. “Maybe this is the moment for
   the African Union or some of the regional organizations to try and set
   up their own independent media monitoring organizations to make sure
   that the population can push back on Russian disinformation.”

   According to the Africa Center for Strategic Studies, an academic and
   research program focused on security, in 2022, 60% of Africa’s more
   than 50 documented disinformation campaigns were externally
   coordinated.

   However, the center says, figures of externally driven disinformation
   campaigns in Africa may not be entirely accurate with the growing trend
   harder to trace.

   Silas Jonathan, the lead open-source researcher at Nigeria’s Center for
   Journalism, Innovation, and Development, which operates the
   fact-checking platform Dubawa, said though official data on the number
   fact-checking coalitions have noted increasing efforts by Russia and
   China to “influence Africa’s conversation.”

   “In the past five months, what I have been seeing is a calculative
   spread of disinformation that seems to glorify Russia and the Wagner
   Group as if they’re the only way out to Africa’s problems,” Jonathan
   told VOA. He said he has observed social media users posting
   disinformation-and-misinformation to counter African democracy,
   emphasizing rhetoric for Africa to align with Russia.

   Jonathan said organizations and coalitions should be working to raise
   awareness of Russia’s disinformation efforts on social media.

   “What I have been doing is to assess social media awareness of Russia’s
   disinformation in Africa, and to find out whether Africans are even
   aware of such subtle influences.”

   This story originated in VOA’s English to Africa Service.

Related

       the Kremlin Had in Store for Him Prigozhin's Final Months Were
       Overshadowed by Questions About What the Kremlin Had in Store for
       Him

Prigozhin's Final Months Were Overshadowed by Questions About What the
Kremlin Had in Store for Him
       Reshape Relations in Africa

France Struggles to Reshape Relations in Africa
       Hails African Countries' Resistance to 'Colonialism'

Iran Hails African Countries' Resistance to 'Colonialism'

More Africa Stories

       Kigali, on Aug. 4, 2017. Rwanda will hold presidential and
       parliamentary polls on July 15 next year, the election commission
       said on Dec. 12, 2023. FILE - Incumbent Rwandan President Paul
       Kagame casts his vote in Kigali, on Aug. 4, 2017. Rwanda will hold
       presidential and parliamentary polls on July 15 next year, the
       election commission said on Dec. 12, 2023.

Rwanda to Hold Presidential Poll Next July
       spread of anthrax near the village of Druzhba, Russia, Aug. 29,
       2012. Five countries in Africa are in the middle of outbreaks of
       the anthrax disease, with 20 deaths reported so far in 2023. FILE -
       A veterinarian hoses a car with disinfectant to prevent the spread
       countries in Africa are in the middle of outbreaks of the anthrax
       disease, with 20 deaths reported so far in 2023.

Five Countries in East and Southern Africa Have Anthrax Outbreaks, WHO Says


UN Seeking $46 Billion for More Than 180 Million of World’s Neediest

Pressure Mounts in Turkey to Seek Extradition of Somalia President's Son for
Fatal Crash

Democratic Republic of Congo Prepares to Hold Elections

Special Report

       project. Promo illustration for the "By the Numbers: Coups in
       Africa" project.

By the Numbers: Coups in Africa

The Day in Photos

       as the air temperature plunges as low as minus 35° C (- 31° F), in
       the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, Russia, Dec. 12, 2023. A man
       walks on the Vinogradovsky Bridge across the Yenisei River, as the
       air temperature plunges as low as minus 35° C (- 31° F), in the
       Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, Russia, Dec. 12, 2023.

December 12, 2023

Recommended


52 Documentary

   ​
   Back to top


   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
