

   News


   Finance


     News

     Markets

     Sectors

     Screeners

     Personal finance

     Videos


     Finance Plus


     Crypto

     Industries

   Sports



     Daily Fantasy

     NFL


     MLB


     NBA


     NHL


     Soccer


     College football


     Show all


   Entertainment


   Life



     Parenting


     Style and beauty


     Horoscopes

     Shopping


     Autos

   About our ads Advertising Careers

   Yahoo News

   Search query ____________________


   Mail
   Sign in

   Advertisement

   Close this content
   The Telegraph The Telegraph

Chernobyl vodka a ‘strange propaganda exercise’, says victims’ charity

   Madeleine Ross
   November 24, 2023 at 4:55 PM·3 min read
   The Chernobyl Spirit Company produces apple schnapps and vodka from
   fruit and grain grown in the so-called ‘Zone Two’ - HO/AFP/Getty Images

   Vodka produced in the abandoned zone at Chernobyl has been labelled a
   “propaganda exercise” by a victims’ charity.

   The Chernobyl Spirit Company, a social enterprise which creates apple
   schnapps and vodka from fruit and grain grown in the so-called “Zone
   Two”, sells the drinks to tourists and in the UK. It launched pear and
   plum versions of its schnapps in 2022.

   While previous scientific inquiries have found that the liquor does not
   contain radiation, the drinks have faced criticism from victims’
   charities for making light of the risk of radiation poisoning.

   Linda Walker, executive director at the Chernobyl Children’s Project,
   which works with people who have disabilities caused by the accident,
   said the spirit production was “inappropriate”.

   She pointed out victims of the disaster are still suffering long-term
   health effects from the fallout of the 1986 disaster.

   Ms Walker said: “It’s just such a bizarre thing to do. It’s so easy to
   grow apples, apples are grown everywhere, absolutely all over the place
   in Belarus and Ukraine.

   “To choose to grow them in the area heavily contaminated by Chernobyl,
   it’s to make a point,” adding: “It’s a very strange propaganda
   exercise.”
   Following the explosion in 1986, a 36-mile wide exclusion zone was
   created around the site’s radioactive core - Petr Shelomovskiy

   Ms Walker said health problems continue in the region, especially in
   areas where people were hunting and eating contaminated foods.

   She explained: “Especially where people were either hunting and eating
   wild boar and rabbits, or people were eating the food from the
   contaminated area.

   “That’s continued to cause all sorts of health problems in both
   children and adults.”

   It comes after some 1,500 bottles of the apple schnapps were seized by
   prosecutors in Ukraine in 2021, and were only released after a thorough
   investigation.

   It is thought the bottles were taken as a result of confusion over
   whether the right tax had been paid on the spirits.

   The company’s vodka was launched in 2019 and the drinks are made by the
   Palinochka Distillery in Ukraine before being shipped to the UK.

   The profits from the alcohol are put back into communities who were
   impacted by the 1986 nuclear disaster.

   Chernobyl Spirit’s 2022 accounts reveal that it made a profit of more
   than £10,000, after making a donation of £15,000 to the Ukrainian war
   effort.
   Portsmouth University’s Professor Jim Smith started the social
   enterprise in 2019 - Getty Images/AFP

   Professor Jim Smith, of Portsmouth University, who started the social
   enterprise in 2019, said scientific evidence suggests the levels of
   radiation in mammals and fish in the area were not higher than in
   similar places nearby.

   He said: “You could grow apples safely and eat them, in many areas in
   this semi-abandoned area. You could grow all sorts of crops safely. The
   farmers know the crops, they know the kind of fertilisation they need
   to make crops which are below the Ukrainian limit and well below the EU
   and UK limits.”

   The professor added the Narodychi District, where the crops are grown,
   is contaminated to a “very low level”, and “no more contaminated than
   Cornwall with natural radiation”.

   He added that the area was suffering from very low investment, meaning
   there was a poor level of healthcare and a lack of jobs for the
   population that remains.

   Following the explosion in 1986, the Soviet Union created a 36-mile
   wide exclusion zone around the radioactive core.

   A new concrete sarcophagus was placed over the site in 2016, reducing
   the remaining radiation in the nearby area, but the authorities have
   struggled to decide what to do with the abandoned land.

   Ukraine is planning to build one of Europe’s largest wind farms in the
   exclusion zone, powering 800,000 homes in and around Kyiv.

   Recommended

   ‘I was expelled at 14 – but by 26 I was splurging £2,000 on caviar’

   Read more

   Broaden your horizons with award-winning British journalism. Try The
   Telegraph free for 1 month, then enjoy 1 year for just $9 with our
   US-exclusive offer.

   Recommended Stories

Procurement software startup Pivot raises $21.6 million just a few months
after its creation

       French startup Pivot is an interesting startup story as it is
       scaling at a rapid pace even though startup investments are down in
       Europe. In September, Pivot started selling its software solution
       to its first clients. Instead of relying on lengthy integration
       processes, Pivot integrates with your existing financial stack as
       much as possible as well as your ERP.
       56m ago

Metafuels lands $8 million bet on greener skies ahead

       Metafuels sets out to change the landscape of sustainable jet fuel,
       and has just picked up an $8 million suitcase from baggage carousel
       3 at its local ZRH. Sure, it sounds a little like a French press or
       maybe a boomerang, but the company has a couple of tricks up its
       sleeve, creating sustainable aviation fuel made using renewable
       electricity -- eSAF, among friends. The company is focusing on jet
       fuel as its primary output, buying a ticket to make jet fuel
       conforming to aviation standards.
       54m ago

British International Investment backs India's Aye Finance in $37M funding

       Aye Finance, an Indian startup that offers its digital lending
       platform to small firms, has raised $37.18 million in a fresh
       funding round led by British International Investment, as it looks
       to continue to help micro enterprises grow their businesses and
       employees expand their incomes. The all-equity Series F round,
       which does not involve any secondary transactions and takes Aye's
       total fundraising to nearly $200 million, involves the
       participation of Waterfield Fund of Funds and the startup's
       existing investor A91 Partners. Founded in 2014, Aye — means "Yes"
       in English and "Income" in Hindi — provides business loans in the
       form of mortgage, hypothecation, and term credit to underserved
       micro enterprises that find it challenging to secure their working
       capital requirements from traditional lenders, including banks,
       with an average ticket size of $1,800.
       3h ago

Snapchat+ subscribers can now use AI to generate or extend images within the
app

       Snapchat+ subscribers can now use AI to extend images — or "zoom
       2h ago

Ekeler's Edge: Year of the backup QB? Ekeler reacts to Herbert's injury

       There's no way around it: Losing Justin Herbert for the season
       stinks for fantasy, reality and everything in between. On a
       emotionally loaded episode of 'Ekeler's Edge' the L.A. RB opens up
       to Matt Harmon about what Herbert means to him as teammate and a
       franchise QB after he sustained a season ending injury in Week 14.
       Ekeler and Harmon also discuss if this year has become 'the year of
       the backup QB' in the NFL given all the injuries at the position.
       3h ago

Juan Soto talks extension negotiations with Yankees: 'They know ... who to
talk to'

       Is Juan Soto one-and-done in New York, or will he sign an
       extension?
       6h ago

Meta is going to fact-check content on the Threads app

       Threads is going to make an effort to moderate more of the
       user-generated content on the platform.
       7h ago

College football transfer portal tracker: Oklahoma QB Dillon Gabriel commits
to Oregon

       The transfer portal officially opened on Monday.
       7h ago

GM says safety is a reason it's dropping Apple CarPlay, Android Auto

       GM cites safety as a reason for it dropping Apple CarPlay and
       Android Auto support from its EV's infotainment systems.
       10h ago

FCC issues final denial of $885M Starlink subsidy

       The FCC has made a final denial of Starlink's application for $885
       million in public funds to expand its orbital communications
       infrastructure to cover parts of rural America, saying the company
       "failed to demonstrate that it could deliver the promised service."
       As previously reported, the money in question was part of the Rural
       Digital Opportunity Fund, a multibillion-dollar program to
       subsidize the rollout of internet service in places where private
       companies have previously decided it’s too expensive or distant to
       do so. The $885 million was first set aside for Starlink in 2020,
       corresponding to the company's bid on how much connectivity it
       could provide, at what cost and to which regions.
       8h ago

Best tech gifts and gadgets to impress loved ones without breaking the bank

       Tile, Kindle, Sony, Ember and more: These 15 awesome gadgets are
       sure to impress this 2023 holiday season.
       9h ago

How Sam Bankman-Fried's 2023 meltdown put the crypto world on trial

       What happened to Sam Bankman-Fried this year was important because
       he was the face of crypto's rise and fall. The implications of the
       case will likely be felt for years to come.
       10h ago

Lawsuit aims to eliminate all NCAA transfer restrictions, while some are
pushing for a stricter policy

       A court case this week could spark a major change in the NCAA
       transfer policy. But the fight is just beginning
       11h ago

I tried the Niimbot B21 retro label maker and it's as useful as it is
adorable

       Great for homes and small businesses alike, this stylish
       battery-powered printer makes labeling fun.
       12h ago

Where to watch 'A Charlie Brown Christmas'? How to stream your favorite
'Peanuts' holiday specials.

       Charlie Brown won't let commercialism ruin his Christmas — and
       neither should you!
       12h ago

Natural gas prices plummet amid high US production, warmer weather

       Natural gas prices are under pressure amid milder-than-expected
       weather and record production in the US.
       11h ago

Hasbro is falling while Amazon, Walmart boast booming online toy sales

       Hasbro is laying off another 1,100 employees while online toy sales
       are booming.
       11h ago

The Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses are getting AI-powered visual search features

       The Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses are about to get some powerful
       upgrades thanks to improvements to the social network’s AI
       assistant.
       11h ago

Police are using pharmacies to secretly access medical information about
members of the public

       A Congressional letter called on the Department of Health and Human
       Services to revise HIPAA so that these warrantless searches
       couldn't occur.
       14h ago

Week 15 Fantasy Football Rankings

       Check out our fantasy football rankings for Week 15 of the 2023 NFL
       season, with help for every position.
       13h ago

   Yahoo news


   Follow us on

   Download our app
   Download app from appStore Download app from googlePlay

   nobyl-vodka-strange-propaganda-exercise-155521940.html&c14=-1]
