   #VOA - Top Stories [RSS]


   analytics

Accessibility links


   please wait

Print Options:



   Link has been copied to clipboard

       U.S. News All About America Silicon Valley & Technology Immigration
       Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central
       Asia

Follow Us

   Languages
   site logo site logo
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next

   East Asia

South Korea Court Strikes Down Ban on Anti-North Korea Propaganda Leaflets

   September 26, 2023 6:09 AM

   FILE - A balloon containing leaflets denouncing North Korean leader Kim
   Jong Un is seen near the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas
   in Paju, South Korea, March 26, 2016.
   FILE - A balloon containing leaflets denouncing North Korean leader Kim
   Jong Un is seen near the demilitarized zone separating the two Koreas
   in Paju, South Korea, March 26, 2016.

   Share


   South Korea Court Strikes Down Ban on Anti-North Korea Propaganda
   Leaflets

   share

   SEOUL, South Korea —

   South Korea's constitutional court ruled on Tuesday the ban on sending
   propaganda leaflets to North Korea was unconstitutional, striking down
   a law passed in 2020 by the liberal party of then-President Moon
   Jae-in, who sought better ties with Pyongyang.

   The law, which subjects violators to up to three years in prison or
   $22,210 in fines, had come under intense criticism from rights
   activists and conservative lawmakers as a violation of free speech
   rights.

   The 7-2 found that a clause in the Development of Inter-Korean
   Relations Act banning the distribution of leaflets excessively limited
   freedom of speech, the Court said in a summary of the ruling.

   The clause characterized the sending of leaflets as a potential cause
   who live near the border in the event North Korea retaliated by force.

   The court's decision to nullify the law takes effect immediately.

   Groups run by North Korean defectors and other campaigners had sent
   anti-Pyongyang leaflets, alongside food and USB sticks containing South
   Korean news and dramas, into the North, usually by balloons or in
   bottles on border rivers.

   The leaflets were often printed on small plastic bags, which are known
   to be coveted by North Koreans, with messages harshly critical of the
   North Korean leadership and news and information about the democratic
   South.

   North Korea reacted angrily to the practice and denounced it as an
   border towns also criticized the action as stoking tension and putting
   their safety at risk.

Reuters
       Subscribe

Related

       US, South Korea to Boost Deterrence Against North Korean Threats

US, South Korea to Boost Deterrence Against North Korean Threats
       Reports China's Xi Seriously Considering South Korea Visit, News
       Agency Reports

China's Xi Seriously Considering South Korea Visit, News Agency Reports
       Korea Ties: Will Putin-Kim Bromance Last?

Russia-North Korea Ties: Will Putin-Kim Bromance Last?

More Asia News

       the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, is shown in a 2014
       file photo. He said in terms of Asia meth drug busts, a recent
       Thailand seizure was second only to one of more than 55 million
       meth tablets in Laos. FILE - Jeremy Douglas, Southeast Asia
       regional representative for the United Nations Office on Drugs and
       Crime, is shown in a 2014 file photo. He said in terms of Asia meth
       drug busts, a recent Thailand seizure was second only to one of
       more than 55 million meth tablets in Laos.

Thai Authorities Seize Record Haul of Meth Tablets Near Border With Myanmar
       candidate, make a campaign appearance in Taipei on Nov. 24, 2023.
       Analysts say China's goal is to help KMT win the Jan. 13 elections.
       FILE - Hou Yu-ih, candidate for Taiwan's presidency from the main
       candidate, make a campaign appearance in Taipei on Nov. 24, 2023.
       Analysts say China's goal is to help KMT win the Jan. 13 elections.

China Ramps Up Efforts to Interfere in Taiwan’s Coming Elections


'Foreign Ownership' Case Against Ressa Dismissed

Exclusive Q&A: Myanmar's Opposition Chief Says Battle Against Junta Has
Turned

China Says It Will Step Up Policy Adjustments to Spur Recovery in 2024

Special Report

       project about the 10-year anniversary of China's Belt and Road
       Initiative. Collage poster illustration for "Belt, Road and Beyond"
       special project about the 10-year anniversary of China's Belt and
       Road Initiative.

Belt, Road and Beyond

The Day in Photos

       as the air temperature plunges as low as minus 35° C (- 31° F), in
       the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, Russia, Dec. 12, 2023. A man
       walks on the Vinogradovsky Bridge across the Yenisei River, as the
       air temperature plunges as low as minus 35° C (- 31° F), in the
       Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, Russia, Dec. 12, 2023.

December 12, 2023

Recommended


52 Documentary

   Back to top


   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
