   #VOA - Top Stories [RSS]


   analytics

Accessibility links


   please wait

Print Options:



   Link has been copied to clipboard

       U.S. News All About America Silicon Valley & Technology Immigration
       Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central
       Asia

Follow Us

   Languages
   site logo site logo
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next

   VOA News on Iran

Journalists Charged With Propaganda Over Iran Protest Coverage

   November 08, 2022 4:02 PM

   FILE - A man holds a copy of the Ham-Mihan newspaper in the Iranian
   capital, Tehran, Oct. 30, 2022. The newspaper features a story on the
   detention of journalists Niloufar Hamedi and Elaheh Mohammadi who,
   according to local media, helped publicize the case of Masha Amini.
   FILE - A man holds a copy of the Ham-Mihan newspaper in the Iranian
   capital, Tehran, Oct. 30, 2022. The newspaper features a story on the
   detention of journalists Niloufar Hamedi and Elaheh Mohammadi who,
   according to local media, helped publicize the case of Masha Amini.

   Share


   Journalists Charged With Propaganda Over Iran Protest Coverage

   share


   Iran on Tuesday charged two female journalists with "propaganda against
   the state" over their coverage of mass protests.

   The judiciary announced that the journalists — Niloufar Hamedi and
   Elaheh Mohammadi — are "remanded in custody for propaganda against the
   system and conspiring against national security."

   Both women have been in custody already for more than a month.

   Anti-government protests are in their seventh week in Iran, with
   rallies breaking out across the country after the death in September of
   Mahsa Amini, who was arrested for allegedly breaching strict dress
   rules for women.

   FILE - This photo taken by an individual not employed by The Associated
   Press and obtained by the AP outside Iran shows students of the Sharif
   University of Technology attending a protest in Tehran, Oct. 7, 2022.
   FILE - This photo taken by an individual not employed by The Associated
   Press and obtained by the AP outside Iran shows students of the Sharif
   University of Technology attending a protest in Tehran, Oct. 7, 2022.
   SEE ALSO:

New Iran Protests Erupt in Universities, Kurdish Region

   Hamedi, who reports for the popular reformist newspaper Shargh, was
   arrested September 20, after she visited the hospital where Amini was
   taken.

   Mohammadi, a reporter for the reformist daily Ham-Mihan, was arrested
   September 29 after traveling to Amini's hometown to cover the funeral.

   Iran has responded to the protests with mass arrests. More than 2,000
   people have been charged, half of them in Tehran, according to the
   judiciary.

   As of Tuesday, more than 60 journalists had been detained, according to
   the Committee to Protect Journalists (CPJ), which is tracking arrests
   in Iran. Some of those were later released on bail, but new arrests are
   still being made into November.

   The pace of arrests has "made Iran among the world's top jailers of
   journalists in an astonishingly short time," CPJ President Jodie
   Ginsberg said in a statement. "Iranian authorities are trying to
   silence a critical moment in the country's history."

   Iran's mission to the United Nations did not respond to VOA's email
   requesting comment.

   'Voice of the people'

   With journalists in Iran under heightened risk, Paris-based Reporters
   Without Borders (RSF) has created a help desk in collaboration with
   Nobel Peace laureate Shirin Ebadi.
   FILE - Shirin Ebadi participates in the World Summit of Nobel Peace
   Laureates, in Chicago, April 25, 2012.
   FILE - Shirin Ebadi participates in the World Summit of Nobel Peace
   Laureates, in Chicago, April 25, 2012.

   In announcing the project, RSF said the help desk will offer digital
   support including providing virtual private networks, or VPNs, and
   helping with mirror sites to circumvent censorship, and will include a
   Farsi-language section.

   Ebadi, who in 2003 became the first female Nobel Peace laureate from
   the Islamic world, said in a RSF statement, "In this sensitive
   situation, Iranian journalists and their work in reporting what is
   going on in Iran is essential. They risk their lives to be the voice of
   the people."

   RSF Secretary General Christophe Deloire said the watchdog is providing
   media "with the tools and support needed to do their jobs as safely as
   possible" to "offer them some protection and minimize disruption to
   their work."

   Iranian journalists outside the country are also under threat over
   protest coverage.

   Police in London informed two British-Iranian journalists working for
   Volant Media of "credible threats to their lives" and those of their
   families, the station reported.

   FILE - In this photo from the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps' Ground
   Force on Oct. 17, 2022, troops stand while attending a maneuver in
   northwestern Iran. FILE - In this photo from the Islamic Revolutionary
   Guard Corps' Ground Force on Oct. 17, 2022, troops stand while
   attending a maneuver in northwestern Iran.
   SEE ALSO:

Iran Issues Death Threats to UK-Based Journalists: Broadcaster

   Volant Media is a London-based Farsi-language channel that has been
   covering the anti-government protests.

   The broadcaster said the threats against its journalists are a
   "dangerous escalation" of attempts to suppress independent media.

   The arrests and harassment of media over protest coverage is
   "unprecedented" and "we see women to be one of the primary targets,"
   Kiran Nazish, founding director of the Coalition for Women in
   Journalism (CFWIJ), told VOA recently.

   Items are shown during a vigil for Mahsa Amini, who died in custody of
   Iran's morality police, in Los Angeles, Sept. 29, 2022. As of Sept. 30,
   groups tracking arrests of journalists in Iran who covered protests set
   a vigil for Mahsa Amini, who died in custody of Iran's morality police,
   in Los Angeles, Sept. 29, 2022. As of Sept. 30, groups tracking arrests
   documented 28 detentions.
   SEE ALSO:

'They Just Disappear': Iran's Journalists Detained Over Protest Coverage

   At least 17 female journalists are among those to be detained,
   according to CFWIJ.

   The grassroots organization, which focuses on the protection of women
   and LGBTQ journalists, is among the media rights groups tracking
   arrests and trying to assist those under threat.

   Iran has the third-worst media freedom record, after North Korea and
   Eritrea. The country ranks 178 out of 180 countries, where 1 has the
   best conditions for journalism on RSF's Press Freedom Index.

   Some information is from Agence France-Presse.

Related

       Overwhelmingly Support Protesters in Iran

Americans Overwhelmingly Support Protesters in Iran
       Clash With Police Near Tehran

Iranian Protesters Clash With Police Near Tehran
       US Calls for Iran to be Removed from UN Women's Rights Commission

US Calls for Iran to be Removed from UN Women's Rights Commission
       Says It Will Investigate Video Showing Police Brutality

Iran Says It Will Investigate Video Showing Police Brutality
       Journalists Detained Amid Protests

Iran Releases 8 Journalists Detained Amid Protests
       Amini's Death be Freed Iranian Journalists Demand that Colleagues
       Jailed for Covering Amini's Death be Freed

Iranian Journalists Demand that Colleagues Jailed for Covering Amini's Death
be Freed


VOA News On Iran

Middle East News

       demonstration in Istanbul, Turkey, on Sept. 20, 2022. Amini's
       family has been banned from traveling to Europe to collect a rights
       prize awarded to her posthumously, their lawyer said on Dec. 9,
       2023. FILE - A protester holds a portrait of Mahsa Amini during a
       demonstration in Istanbul, Turkey, on Sept. 20, 2022. Amini's
       family has been banned from traveling to Europe to collect a rights
       prize awarded to her posthumously, their lawyer said on Dec. 9,
       2023.

Mahsa Amini's Family Blocked From Leaving Iran for EU Rights Prize
       speaking at a press conference in Beirut, Lebanon, on Oct. 13,
       2023, said on Dec. 9 that it would be "useless" to try reviving a
       nuclear deal that was scuttled by former U.S. President Donald
       Trump. FILE - Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amirabdollahian,
       shown here speaking at a press conference in Beirut, Lebanon, on
       Oct. 13, 2023, said on Dec. 9 that it would be "useless" to try
       reviving a nuclear deal that was scuttled by former U.S. President
       Donald Trump.

Iran Says Reviving Nuclear Deal 'Useless'


Children of Iran Nobel Peace Prize Winner Fear They Won't See Her Again

‘Shadows of Children’: For Youngest Gaza Hostages, Life Moves Forward in
Whispers

Lebanon's Christians Feel Heat of Climate Change in Sacred Forest and Valley

Special Report


Confronting ‘Morality’

   Read a translation: English Kurmancî كوردی فارسی دری پښتو

Recommended


52 Documentary

   Back to top


   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
