   #VOA - Top Stories [RSS]


   analytics

Accessibility links


   please wait

Print Options:



   Link has been copied to clipboard

       U.S. News All About America Silicon Valley & Technology Immigration
       Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central
       Asia

Follow Us

   Languages
   site logo site logo
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next

   Fact Checks

Propaganda Campaigners Use 'Pallywood' Label to Accuse Palestinians of
Staging Civilian Casualties

   November 02, 2023 3:53 PM

   Screen capture from Instagram. Some social media users falsely claim
   the photomontage depicts staged events in the Gaza Strip. It actually
   shows a Syrian girl who was rescued in Aleppo, Syria, on August 27,
   2016, following an airstrike by government forces. Screen capture from
   Instagram. Some social media users falsely claim the photomontage
   depicts staged events in the Gaza Strip. It actually shows a Syrian
   girl who was rescued in Aleppo, Syria, on August 27, 2016, following an
   airstrike by government forces.

   Share


   Propaganda Campaigners Use 'Pallywood' Label to Accuse Palestinians of
   Staging Civilian Casualties

   share

   rose_k01 rose_k01

rose_k01

   Blue-checked X subscriber

   “Palestine Pallywood is running out child actors Same Kid rescued over
   and over again.
   Source: X, October 27, 2023
   False

   Hybrid warfare in the Gaza Strip continues to escalate both on the
   battlefield and online, with fighting on the ground killing thousands
   and propaganda campaigns engaging millions of social media users.

   After conducting weeks of intense airstrikes on the Gaza Strip in
   retaliation for Hamas killing more than 1,400 Israelis and taking some
   200 hostages, Israel launched an on-the-ground operation in Gaza on
   October 27.

   The Hamas-run Gaza health ministry claims that Israeli airstrikes have
   killed 8,000 people, including 3,000 children. Israel disputes these
   numbers, claiming Hamas has been inflating them.

   Viral posts on social media claim some scenes of death and carnage are
   fake.

   Israel supporters on X are using the derogatory label “Pallywood” — a
   mix of the words “Palestine” and “Hollywood” — to claim that
   Palestinians are staging scenes of death and violence using so-called
   crisis actors to elicit global sympathy and win the PR war with Israel.

   For example, on October 27, rose_k01, a blued-checked X user with an
   active subscription to the platform and more than 78,000 followers,
   shared a photomontage appearing to show three different men carrying
   the same child.

   The caption to the rose_k01 post reads:

   “Palestine Pallywood is running out [of] child actors Same Kid rescued
   Screen capture from X. Some social media users falsely claim the
   photomontage depicts staged events in the Gaza Strip. It actually shows
   a Syrian girl who was rescued in Aleppo, Syria, on August 27, 2016,
   following an airstrike by government forces.
   Screen capture from X. Some social media users falsely claim the
   photomontage depicts staged events in the Gaza Strip. It actually shows
   a Syrian girl who was rescued in Aleppo, Syria, on August 27, 2016,
   following an airstrike by government forces.

   Another verified X user, ivgiz, who has nearly 167K followers, shared
   the same photomontage, with this caption in Hebrew:

   “How many times has she been saved with the same clothes?”

   Other blued-checked X accounts and users of other social media
   platforms have used the same photomontage to make similarly false
   claims.

   The photos are real but have nothing to do with Gaza. They show a
   Syrian girl who was rescued in Aleppo, Syria, on August 27, 2016,
   following an airstrike by Syrian government forces.

   The original photos used to make the montage were taken by Ameer
   al-Halabi, a freelance photographer for Agence France-Presse.

   The photos were taken within 80 seconds of each other, and show the
   same girl, who had been handed off to three different men during a
   rescue operation.

   The same photomontage has been used in a broader Russia-backed
   disinformation campaign to falsely accuse the White Helmets, Syrian
   volunteer rescue workers, of staging atrocities.

   Other recent social media posts shared by rose_k01 and others have
   likewise attempted to claim Palestinians are using crisis actors in
   their propaganda war against Israel.

   For example, pro-Israel posters falsely claimed that Saleh Aljafarawi,
   a 25-year-old Palestinian who has been blogging about the Israel-Hamas
   conflict, faked a scene of being hospitalized following an Israeli
   bombing.

   Those social media claims showed side-by-side videos of an individual
   identified as Aljafarawi. In the first video, marked “today,”
   Aljafarawi is shown walking around in good health, filming scenes in
   Gaza. In the adjacent video, labeled “yesterday,” an individual
   identified as Aljafarawi is shown receiving care in a hospital bed.
   A screen capture from X. This post actually shows two different people
   taken months apart, despite claims it's a "Pallywood" fake.
   A screen capture from X. This post actually shows two different people
   taken months apart, despite claims it's a "Pallywood" fake.

   But the individual in the hospital bed footage is actually Saeed
   Zandek, a 16-year-old who lost his leg during an Israeli raid on the
   Nur Shams refugee camp on July 24, Reuters reported.

   In other social media posts, footage showing Palestinian makeup artist
   Mariam Salah applying fake blood and other wounds to help the French
   charity Doctors of the World conduct a medical training exercise in
   2017 has falsely been passed off as evidence that Palestinians are
   staging atrocities.

   As Polygraph.info previously reported, misuse and misattribution of old
   footage have become a signature disinformation tactic in the
   Israel-Hamas war.

   Polygraph.info has documented several such examples. They include
   attempts to pass off footage from the war in Syria, footage of an
   Indian navy missile test, and footage of militant activity in the
   Philippines, as coming from the Israel-Hamas conflict.

   As is the case with this verification, blued-checked users with an
   active subscription to X Premium regularly use the social media
   platform to spread disinformation about the Israel-Hamas conflict.

   A recent study by NewsGuard, an information analysis company, found
   that blue-checked, “verified” X users had accounted for 74% of the
   platform’s most viral false or unsubstantiated claims during the first
   week of the Israel-Hamas War.


Polygraph.info
       Polygraph.info is a fact-checking website produced by Voice of
       America (VOA). ​The website serves as a resource for verifying the
       increasing volume of disinformation and misinformation being
       distributed and shared globally.
       FOLLOW Subscribe

   Back to top


   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
