   #VOA - Top Stories [RSS]


   analytics

Accessibility links


   please wait

Print Options:



   Link has been copied to clipboard

       U.S. News All About America Silicon Valley & Technology Immigration
       Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central
       Asia

Follow Us

   Languages
   site logo site logo
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next

   Press Freedom

Disinformation, Censorship, Trigger Global Retreat of Press Freedom

   May 03, 2022 2:50 AM update May 03, 2022 1:27 PM

   Propaganda a Global Threat to Free Media
   please wait
   Embed share

Propaganda a Global Threat to Free Media

   Embed share
   The code has been copied to your clipboard.

   width 640_________________ px height 360_________________ px


   The URL has been copied to your clipboard

   No media source currently available
   Download

   Share


   Disinformation, Censorship, Trigger Global Retreat of Press Freedom

   share

   washington —

   Led by the Kremlin's example, a global rise in disinformation and
   propaganda is having a disastrous effect on independent news around the
   world, a new report finds.

   In its 2022 World Press Freedom Index released Tuesday, the Paris-based
   Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said Russia's invasion of Ukraine has
   contributed vastly to the spread of fake news and propaganda.

   The journalism watchdog group said its findings are worrying, as they
   show deep divisions among media within countries and between countries
   at the international level.

   "In 2022, it's really undeniable that media polarization and
   information chaos are really fueling social divisions in ways that are
   pretty new," said Clayton Weimers, deputy director of RSF for the
   United States, told VOA. He said the prevalence of partisan news around
   the world has come at the expense of authentic journalism.

   The group's annual report ranks 180 countries based on the environment
   for independent journalism. This year, however, RSF said it used a new
   method that blends each country's political, legal, economic,
   sociocultural and security conditions.

   Now, the index classifies a record 28 countries as "having very bad
   media freedom." That group includes China, which is exporting
   censorship beyond its borders while also amplifying the Kremlin's
   propaganda on Russia's devastating war against Ukraine.
   World Press Freedom Index 2022 by countries and territories, according
   to Reporters Without Borders
   World Press Freedom Index 2022 by countries and territories, according
   to Reporters Without Borders

   Russia, China among worst

   Since its invasion of Ukraine on February 24, Russia has sought total
   control over news coverage, passing a new law that carries 15-year
   prison terms for reporting "false news" on the military, and even
   forbids calling the conflict a "war."

   That has forced most remaining independent news outlets, including the
   renowned Novaya Gazeta newspaper, Ekho Moskvy radio and Dozhd TV, to
   shut down or move outside Russia to continue operating.

   With independent voices absent, experts say, the Russian government has
   been able to flood state-run airwaves with propaganda that downplays
   the war and spreads false or misleading justifications for the
   Kremlin's invasion.

   Russia's media repression stands at 155 out of 180 countries included
   in RSF's index, where one is the most free and 180 the least.

   "It's safe to say at this point that the free press is a thing of the
   past in Russia," Clayton said.

   Throughout Russian President Vladimir Putin's 22 years in power, Moscow
   has been targeting journalists and the independent press, he said.

   "But since the invasion of Ukraine, it seems that Putin has really
   finished off the independent media once and for all in Russia," Clayton
   said. "At this point, it is impossible to accurately report on the war
   in Ukraine."

   China ranked 175th in the new report. And now that it is firmly under
   Beijing's influence, Hong Kong also registered a dramatic decline,
   ranking 148th out of 180 following a lengthy series of raids and
   arrests that shuttered pro-democracy news sites.

   RSF's country file on China says it is the world's biggest jailer of
   journalists, with 120 in detention. The regime uses coercion,
   harassment, intimidation and surveillance to keep independent and
   foreign journalists from reporting on issues deemed "sensitive."

   "President Xi Jinping, in power since 2013, has restored a media
   culture worthy of the Maoist era, in which freely accessing information
   has become a crime and to provide information an even greater crime,"
   RSF's country file states.

   Rising authoritarianism

   North Korea remains the worst country in the rankings at 180th.
   Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, political turmoil, conflict and
   rising authoritarianism have wiped out years of progress.

   The 2021 coup in Myanmar marked a 10-year setback for media rights,
   with journalists detained, media licenses revoked, and many news
   176th, is one of the world's biggest jailers of journalists.

   In Afghanistan, the Taliban insurgents pledged to uphold press freedom
   when they took power in August 2021. Instead, RSF said the "Taliban's
   seizure of power has further worsened conditions for reporters and news
   violence." Afghanistan ranked 154th.

   Across Africa, laws criminalizing online journalism have dealt a new
   blow to the right to information, RSF said, while the spread of rumors,
   propaganda, and disinformation has contributed to undermine access to
   quality information.

   In Ethiopia, the war in the Tigray region, with its communication
   blackouts and restricted access, were the main factors that placed the
   country 114 on the index. Neighboring Eritrea and Djibouti are far
   worse, ranking near the bottom at 179 and 164, respectively.

   African media continue to struggle economically, RSF said it its
   accompanying analysis.
   FILE - A Cameroonian journalist holds a sign raeding "No to the
   persecution of journalists" during a free speech rally in Yaounde,
   Cameroon, May 3, 2010. FILE - A Cameroonian journalist holds a sign
   raeding "No to the persecution of journalists" during a free speech
   rally in Yaounde, Cameroon, May 3, 2010. SEE ALSO:

Cameroon Journalists Decry Separatists and Military Abuses on Press Freedom
Day

   "Despite a wave of liberalization in the 1990s, there are still, too
   and violent attacks," the group said.

   Clayton said the rising authoritarianism feeds on itself.

   "When we allow a culture of impunity to exist where authoritarians are
   allowed to go after journalists, harass them, arrest them, beat them in
   the streets and kill them, it has a knock-on effect," he said. "It
   emboldens that same authoritarian to do it again next time, and it
   emboldens other authoritarians who are watching to do the same."

   US not perfect

   After a period of seeing its media attacked as "fake news" by former
   President Donald Trump, the United States retained a relatively high
   ranking of 42 in RSF's index. That is largely thanks to the return of
   regular White House and federal agency press briefings.

   But RSF said problems persist, including "the disappearance of local
   newspapers, the systematic polarization of the media, and the erosion
   aggression toward journalists, among others."

   Barriers exist, for instance, when it comes to covering state
   governments and protests.

   "We typically find that this is either due to just a blatant disregard
   for the laws governing open records or meetings, or they're simply
   misinterpreting them. An individual is misinterpreting whether a
   journalist can be present at a particular event," said Beth Francesco,
   senior director of the National Press Club Journalism Institute.

   A few bright spots

   Despite an overall trend of decline, Clayton said there are positives.

   Some governments provide funding for news media without interfering in
   their operations, to ensure independence from political influence.

   "If you look at the top of our list, some of the things that stand out
   are these are countries that have robust public funding for media," he
   said, noting that "it's always important to separate state funding for
   media and state-controlled media."

   Three Scandinavian countries — Norway, Denmark and Sweden —
   respectively come at the top of RSF's index. Estonia, a former Soviet
   Union republic, ranked 4th.

   RSF said the free exercise of journalism plays a major role in emerging
   democracies such as East Timor, ranked 17, Bhutan, ranked 33, and
   Mongolia, ranked 90.

   East Timor was one country whose ranking skyrocketed, rising 54 places.
   But RSF cautioned that because of its change in methodology this year,
   "care should be taken when comparing the 2022 rankings and scores with
   those from 2021."

Latest Press Freedom Stories

       mother after the verdict in a Ferghana criminal court, Uzbekistan,
       Dec. 1, 2023. Uzbek blogger Olimjon Haydarov, right, puts his arm
       around his mother after the verdict in a Ferghana criminal court,
       Uzbekistan, Dec. 1, 2023.

Criticized Over Blogger Arrests, Uzbekistan Denies It's a Free Speech Issue
       Conflict  Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in
       Israel-Hamas Conflict

Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in Israel-Hamas Conflict
       A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

Kremlin Propaganda on Uptick in Latin America
       in Washington, D.C., Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA) FILE - The U.S. Agency
       for Global Media logo at Voice of America, in Washington, D.C.,
       Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA)

Senate Approves USAGM Board
       interview with Reuters at the Presidential Office in Seoul, South
       Korea, April 18, 2023. FILE - South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol
       speaks during an interview with Reuters at the Presidential Office
       in Seoul, South Korea, April 18, 2023.

Under Yoon, South Korea Defamation Cases Against Media Rise

Special Reports

       Mexico. Comic book panels of a photojournalist taking a photo.
       Illustrated poster image for VOA press freedom story on Tijuana,
       Mexico. Comic book panels of a photojournalist taking a photo.

Risk and Reward - Covering Violence in Tijuana, Mexico

The Afghan Journalists Who Stayed
       Mechanism - For Mexican Media, Crime Beat Can Be a Killer

The Mechanism - Covering Crime in Mexico's Most Dangerous States

Recommended


52 Documentary

   Back to top


   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
