   #Doug Casey's International Man » Feed Doug Casey's International Man »
   Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   International Man
   International Man
   Start Here

   MENUMENU

Doug Casey on the Use of Children in Propaganda

   by Doug Casey
   Use of Children in Propaganda

   International Man: Throughout history, governments have always used
   propaganda to drum up support for war. Often, their atrocity propaganda
   features children to get the maximum emotional response.

   For example, during World War 1, the US media whipped up a frenzy by
   claiming that the Germans were bayoneting Belgian babies. The
   atrocities never happened.

   In the run-up to the Gulf War in 1991, Americans were told that Iraqi
   soldiers were ripping babies from incubators in Kuwaiti hospitals.
   President George H.W. Bush later repeated the story. It was a pivotal
   event that increased support for the war. Later, the incident was
   revealed to be fake, and the woman making the claims was the daughter
   get the US involved in the war.

   More recently, the media told us about the Palestinian Hamas beheading
   40 Israeli babies. President Joe Biden repeated the incident. It was
   later revealed not to have occurred.

   These are just a few examples of this propaganda tactic.

   What is your take on all of this?

   Doug Casey: It’s long been said, quite correctly, that “The first
   casualty in war is truth.” Especially when it comes to war reporting,
   you never know what to believe. It’s impossible to separate truth from
   propaganda most of the time. Emotion almost always triumphs over
   reason.

   Americans are particularly vulnerable to emotional arguments because
   they always see themselves as the “good guys.” Although their
   interventions almost always made things worse—starting with the US
   fomenting the Spanish-American War, then prolonging World War I and
   setting up the conditions for World War II. Foreign disasters have
   gotten worse since—in Korea, Vietnam, Afghanistan, and Iraq.

   Now, in the Ukraine and Gaza. And lots of others on the runway.
   Americans are particularly vulnerable to seeing themselves as saviors
   when they should just mind their own business.

   Frankly, it’s not just the babies being used as excuses for more
   killing. In the recent Hamas attack on Israel, the Times of Israel says
   that “at least 1,200 Israelis” were killed, while Haaretz says “at
   least 1,400”. It is odd that in a tightly wrapped-society like Israel,
   they don’t know how many were killed. Neither paper has made any
   reference whatsoever to the hundreds of cars which were burned out and
   destroyed at the music festival. That’s especially odd since the Hamas
   attack was conducted with small arms—which couldn’t possibly have
   destroyed all those cars. It is, however, the type of thing that
   weapons on Israeli helicopters, which were apparently called in,
   could’ve done.

   How many of the casualties were friendly fire? Meanwhile, when the
   Gazans report casualties, it’s right down to the single person as
   hearing is made up and shouldn’t be believed. Stories about the dead
   babies and the mass rapes seem quite incredible for a number of
   reasons.

   International Man: Even if the lies are later exposed, it’s often too
   late. It seems the propaganda’s primary purpose is to initiate a war
   urgently.

   What do you think?

   Doug Casey: To quote another old aphorism, “A lie can get halfway
   around the world before truth even puts on its walking shoes.”

   With propaganda, it’s important to get your word out as soon as
   possible because, generally speaking, the first things that people hear
   tend to be imprinted on their minds and accepted as the truth.
   Revisions are often suspect, the way “revisionist” history is suspect.
   Corrections in the newspaper are overlooked. What you learn initially
   is usually what sticks in your brain.

   The war in the Ukraine is a perfect example of that. Everybody has
   blamed the Russians. Nobody is paying attention to either recent
   history or historical context. Few are aware that the current Ukrainian
   government was put in place by a US coup in 2014. Very few are aware of
   how Kruschev arbitrarily gave Crimea to the Ukraine, or that the
   Ukraine has been fighting a bloody war since 2014 against the
   Russian-speaking Donbas. Or that the US has overtly violated its
   agreements on expanding NATO. Or a dozen other serious matters.

   To hear press reports, you’d think the Russians and Israelis both go
   makes about zero military sense—unless the enemy purposefully puts
   heavy weapons near them for cover, which is usually the case.

   What’s really happened in the Ukraine and Gaza is likely very different
   from what is widely reported. Lies are everywhere when politics or
   economics are the issue. You really can’t believe anything, especially
   from official sources most, especially if there’s a war going on.

   International Man: How have the internet and social media changed war
   propaganda and its effectiveness?

   Doug Casey: Social media and the internet have created a lot of
   dysfunctions. Among them, everybody’s reality today is primarily what’s
   shown on the screens of their computers or iPhones. Over time, this
   disconnects people from actual reality and results in a feeling of
   alienation.

   On the other hand, there are good things. People no longer have to rely
   information. Individual bloggers now have boots on the ground, and
   they’re becoming increasingly dominant. “Little people” who were
   previously voiceless can now reach millions. Previously, if they saw
   something, word would never get out unless they could somehow get the
   ear of a mass media reporter. That’s changed.

   The State and its mass media still retain credibility, of course, and
   they can also counterattack with organized trolls. As we recently saw,
   Twitter amounted to an alter ego for the State. I suspect Facebook and
   Google, though they’re ostensibly private, are also State-controlled
   media.

   The answer to the question is that the internet and social media are
   definitely double-edged swords. But when it comes to reporting, they’re
   a good thing.

   International Man: Governments have also used children to promote other
   agendas. For example, children feature prominently in the push for more
   restrictions and regulations on guns.

   Children like Greta Thunberg have been featured in promoting the
   so-called “climate change” agenda.

   What is your take?

   Doug Casey: “The children,” and I put that in quotes, have always been
   a favorite hot button the fake humanitarians like to push. They’re used
   as pawns to justify absolutely any depredation. More laws to restrain
   free speech because they say it will corrupt the children. More gun
   laws. More drug laws, since they say the children are most at risk. In
   fact, these laws do little to protect kids, but a lot to enhance State
   power.

   Children should be the province of their parents, not the State. The
   State uses them as political shuttlecocks to be batted around the
   media.

   And now comes young St. Greta. She’s proof of the ignorance of
   children. But, more importantly, she illustrates the stupidity of the
   public, who are apparently willing to believe a kid devoid of
   experience, expertise, or even a reasonable education. It’s actually a
   laugh riot when she gives a lecture to adults for having ruined her
   childhood.

   It’s scary the way an audience of adults can be swayed. She’s had one
   internationally traveled, and gets to sail across the Atlantic. She
   impresses me as a high-functioning autistic busybody, a wannabe
   authoritarian with loads of hostility, living in a dream world.

   International Man: Given everything we’ve discussed today, how do you
   suggest people avoid being manipulated to promote these agendas?

   Doug Casey: The only way to counter nonsense while maintaining your
   integrity and sanity is to use critical thinking. Critical thinking
   essentially amounts to listening carefully and questioning everything
   in a reasonable, intellectually honest way. Make sure that all words
   are defined and used properly. Pursue concepts until you get a full and
   complete answer. Determine as best you can whether someone is lying, or
   just spouting an ignorant meme, or actually knows what they’re talking
   about. A critical thinker checks the premises underlying every
   statement of belief.

   Critical thinking is one of the most important skills anyone can have.
   Fortunately, anyone can train themselves to become a critical thinker.
   The first step is not to automatically believe anything. And that’s
   especially true if there’s emotive content in whatever is being said.

   Editor’s Note: If you want to navigate the complicated economic and
   political situation that is unfolding, then you need to see this newly
   released video from Doug Casey and his team.

   In it, Doug reveals what you need to know, and how these dangerous
   times could impact your wealth.

   Click here to watch it now.

   Tags: economic collapse,

Related Articles

Can the Government Ban Bitcoin? Four Things You Need To Know Today

   by Nick Giambruno

   Recently, we’ve heard powerful bankers and politicians expressing their
   desire to ban Bitcoin. Can they actually do it?

Is This What You Call Being Prepared?

   by Jeff Thomas

   It seems increasingly evident that the US and possibly some other
   countries are not so far away from dramatic civil unrest.

David Stockman on Washington’s Entrenched War Machine

   by David Stockman

   Washington’s great war machine and teeming national security industry
   is its own agent of self-perpetuation.

Doug Casey on the End of the Nation-State

   by Doug Casey

   Liberty no longer has a home.

   Making the Most of Your Personal Freedom and Financial Opportunity
   Around the World!
   Doug Casey:We are heading towards genuine crisis

Topics

Offshore
Banking

   Offshore Banking

   The top 10 benefits of having an offshore bank account.

Second
Passport

   Second Passport

   Free yourself from absolute dependence on any one country.

Gold and Silver
Offshore Storage

   Offshore Storage

   Tangible wealth out of reach of your home government.

Puerto Rico’s
Tax Incentives

   Puerto Rico’s<br /> Tax Incentives

   The best tax haven for Americans.

Recent Articles

Doug Casey with Some Thoughts on Phyles, Islam, and Warfare

   by Doug Casey

   My crystal ball showing what we’ll see in the years to come is a bit
   cloudy.

Can the Government Ban Bitcoin? Four Things You Need To Know Today

   by Nick Giambruno

   Recently, we’ve heard powerful bankers and politicians expressing their
   desire to ban Bitcoin. Can they actually do it?

Is This What You Call Being Prepared?

   by Jeff Thomas

   It seems increasingly evident that the US and possibly some other
   countries are not so far away from dramatic civil unrest.

David Stockman on Washington’s Entrenched War Machine

   by David Stockman

   Washington’s great war machine and teeming national security industry
   is its own agent of self-perpetuation.
   ﻿

INTELLIGENCE


HOW TO...



   Doug Casey's International Man
   Contact  Our Mission  Terms & Privacy
   -
   The Most Dangerous Event of the 21st Century



   As a bonus, you’ll receive our wildly popular read, Doug Casey’s
   International Man Communiqué.
   Join an Elite Group of Freedom Seekers, Investors, Adventurers, and
   Speculators
       special reports.
       cost.

   Making the Most of Your Personal Freedom and Financial Opportunity
   Around the World

       guides and country reports.
