   IN-DEPTH / IN-DEPTH
   GT investigates: Unveiling propaganda campaign by Philippines, Western
   media to defame China, stir up trouble in South China Sea
   By GT staff reporters Published: Nov 20, 2023 10:57 AM Updated: Nov 19,
   2023 09:24 PM

   China urges some Philippines ships to immediately cease its infringing
   actions on November 10, 2023. Two small Philippine transport ships and
    three Philippine Coast Guard ships illegally entered the area on that
             day without China's permission. Photo: Visual News

   China urges some Philippines ships to immediately cease its infringing
   actions on November 10, 2023. Two small Philippine transport ships and
   three Philippine Coast Guard ships illegally entered the area on that
   day without China's permission. Photo: Visual News
   In recent months, the Philippines has repeatedly intruded on the waters
   near China's Huangyan Island and Ren'ai Jiao (Ren'ai Reef) in the South
   China Sea, while simultaneously spreading false information and even
   staging incidents in the international public opinion arena,
   specifically aimed at defaming China to exacerbate tensions with
   neighboring countries. Many Western media outlets, ravenously feasting
   on the opportunity to discredit China, have also joined forces with the
   Philippines to distort the facts.
   Why does the Philippines, despite knowing the potential for conflict,
   choose to provoke and manipulate journalists to create a provocative
   narrative against China? What are their attempts to control public
   opinion? What are the different motivations and sinister intentions
   behind the different parties involved?
   Through investigation and verification, the Global Times has discovered
   a resonance between the Philippines and some Western media in the
   production of fake news on the South China Sea issue, as they attempt
   to converge and create a false narrative that portrays China as
   aggressive, domineering and a bullying to smaller nations. Such
   deliberate efforts to create confusion will not help resolve the South
   China Sea issue, but instead damage peace and stability in the region.
   Escalated farce
   "Territorial conflict,""risky intercepts," and "extremely reckless and
   dangerous harassment" are a few of the high-frequency keywords that
   have emerged in recent reports by major Philippine media outlets
   regarding China's justified actions in the South China Sea, an
   indication of an intensifying false propaganda offensive by the
   Philippines.
   The Philippine government has extensively laid the groundwork to aid in
   swaying public opinion, including creating conflicts in disputed waters
   through the use of various "props" and launching strong premeditated
   counterattacks.
   The most iconic bit of fake news material from the Philippine
   propaganda campaign in the South China Sea comes from their "grounded"
   vessel at Ren'ai Jiao. Ren'ai Jiao is part of China's Nansha Island.
   However, the Philippines has "grounded" a military vessel at Ren'ai
   Jiao and attempted to repair and reinforce it in an attempt to
   permanently occupy the area. Using this "grounded" vessel, the
   Philippines has orchestrated a series of combined public opinion
   offensives.
   The corpse-like vessel has become an important tool for Philippine
   authorities and anti-China media to agitate constant waves in the South
   China Sea.
   On October 22, the Philippines once again attempted to supply
   construction materials to the grounded vessel at Ren'ai Jiao and were
   intercepted by the China Coast Guard (CCG). Surprisingly, they then
   approached the CCG patrol ship, resulting in two consecutive collisions
   between the two vessels.
   Following this incident, the Philippines began a series of propaganda
   attacks. The Philippine Presidential Communications Office publicly
   stated on Facebook that Philippine President Ferdinand Romualdez Marcos
   had convened a special command conference of the national security and
   defense clusters to "look into China's recent harassment."
   Jonathan Malaya, spokesperson for the national security council of the
   country, then accused China of "increasing tensions" in the South China
   Sea during a press conference.
   However, the Global Times found that behind the scenes of these South
   China Sea disputes, there are always Philippine government officials
   who incentivize confrontations by providing free oil and groceries,
   inciting Filipino fishermen to challenge China's control zone,
   provoking CCG patrol ship, and staging incidents for the camera. They
   also conduct close-range reconnaissance of the CCG's on-site control
   facilities such as the barrier nets, and seize opportunities to
   sabotage them.
   Unable to base any of the narratives peddled on fact, the Philippine
   side has resorted to employing anything related to maritime activities
   as evidence, including maritime buoys and ship anchors.
   On September 25, the Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) carried out a
   "special operation," disguised as ordinary fishermen by approaching the
   Huangyan Island and then submerging to cut some floats anchored in the
   ocean. Subsequently, the PCG held a press conference, releasing a video
   showcasing their "valiant action" and presenting an unidentified iron
   anchor as "captured equipment," while boasting about their successful
   "interception of China."
   The video in question clearly shows signs of the scene being staged,
   with obvious adjustments of angles during underwater filming,
   deliberately avoiding any crucial actions and visuals that could reveal
   the buoy's information. Chinese netizens have shared comparison photos,
   pointing out that the so-called iron anchor of the Chinese Navy, as
   claimed by the PCG, is actually a common tool used by Chinese
   fishermen.
   Observers have pointed out that the interception by the CCG is
   legitimate and necessary. China has set up floating barriers at the
   entrance of the lagoon within Huangyan Island to safeguard its
   sovereignty, and there is no element of "bullying" involved.
   And when there is no any "evidence," the Philippines attempts to
   escalate tensions in the South China Sea and furthers attempts at
   playing the innocent bullying victim card in the issue.
   On August, disregarding China's repeated dissuasion and warnings, the
   Philippines dispatched two vessels to illegally enter Ren'ai Jiao
   territory, in an alleged attempting at delivering construction
   materials to "grounded" vessels. The PCG fabricated a story using
   static photos on Facebook, claiming that the CCG had engaged in
   "dangerous maneuvers and illegal use of water cannons against the PCG
   vessels."
   However, in the footage released by the CCG, the Chinese vessel's water
   column did not hit the supply ship and instead went into the sea.
   On August 7, CCG spokesperson Gan Yu clearly stated in a press
   conference that the CCG vessel carried out a lawful interception and
   employed warning enforcement measures. "In the face of ineffective
   warnings after multiple calls, in order to avoid direct interception
   and collision, water cannons were used as further deterrence. The
   on-site operation was professional, restrained, and beyond reproach."
   The irony is, despite all the cries of "justice," no Filipino media
   outlet has ever mentioned the CCG's restraint when intercepting
   Filipino fishing boats. They also deliberately ignored the fact that
   the Chinese navy frequently conducts rescue operations to assist
   Filipino fishermen in the waters of the South China Sea, and receives
   sincere gratitude from those who have been rescued.
   In addition to the repeated use of the "grounded" vessel, the
   Philippines has previously hyped up the claim that "China has destroyed
   coral reefs in the South China Sea" and even threatened to take legal
   action against China. This move has been strongly condemned by China as
   a "political farce."
   "If the Philippines truly cares about the ecological environment of the
   South China Sea, it should tow away the illegally 'grounded' warship at
   Ren'ai Jiao as soon as possible, stop it from discharging polluted
   water into the ocean, and not let the rusting warship bring irrevocable
   harm to the ocean," China's Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mao Ning
   responded on a routine press conference in September.
   From the previous sensational claims about Chinese fishermen digging up
   coral reefs and damaging the marine environment, to the slanderous
   claims that the CCG were driving away Filipino fishermen, and recent
   demands to dismantle the floating barriers placed by China, the
   Philippine authorities and local media outlets have continuously
   escalated their propaganda, gradually forming a mature set of arguments
   by utilizing sporadic public opinion attacks, Peng Nian, a scholar at
   China's National Institute for South China Sea Studies, told the Global
   Times.
   Peng pointed out that this series of actions indicates a growing
   possibility of radicalization in the policies and actions of the
   Philippine government regarding the South China Sea issue.
   These recent disputes are actually part of a series of actions taken by
   the Philippines against China's stance on the South China Sea issue.
   These include providing supplies to grounded vessels, inviting foreign
   media outlets to report on the propaganda, and conducting joint patrols
   with the US, Dai Fan, director of the Center for Philippine Studies at
   Jinan University, told the Global Times.
   "The Philippine government aims to establish an image of China bullying
   the Philippines in the international community, promote the idea that
   China is undermining international rules, and at the same time, divert
   attention from its increasingly acute domestic conflicts to rally
   public support." Dai noted.

                                 Photo: VCG

   Photo: VCG
   Unseemly tricks
   Worse still, the US-led West continues to meddle in South China Sea
   issues so as to attempt to interfere in China's internal affairs and
   damage China's international image. Some Western media outlets,
   abandoning their basic principles of professionalism such as balance
   and objectivity, openly side with the Philippines and attack China with
   unseemly tricks.
   One of the major tricks employed by some Western media outlets in
   slandering China with regard to their South China Sea-related coverage
   is only presenting the Philippine narrative.
   The Global Times took note of 10 recent stories by mainstream Western
   media outlets on South China Sea issues, in which only three quoted
   statement made by the Chinese government and experts. None of the 10
   stories contained any first-hand interviews with the Chinese side. In
   stark contrast, the stories were replete with first-hand quotes from
   Filipino fishermen, government officials, and experts.
   In a September story titled "Filipino fisherman chased by China coast
   guard in disputed waters," AFP journalists, who openly stated that they
   had been "on board" a Philippine government ship at that time, detailed
   Filipino fishermen's sensational claims and the country's officials'
   incendiary accusations against China.
   The story, similar to many others by Western media outlets, turned a
   blind eye to any response, statements, or explanations from the Chinese
   side, transforming supposed impartial reporting by an independent
   third-party media outlet into a de facto press release by the
   Philippine government, Chinese observers pointed out.
   The use of blatantly inflammatory and offensive headlines is yet
   another cliché trick resorted to by Western media outlets.
   A Bloomberg article titled "Philippines Steps Up Exposure of China
   'Bullying' in Sea Row" published in August as well as a
   Chinese-language article published by the VOA-titled "Water cannon
   incident escalates tensions in the South China Sea; international
   community condemns Beijing's 'dangerous' move" are just two such
   examples. Headlines like these paint China in a negative light, setting
   a negative tone in reporting by media outfits expected to be
   professional and impartial.
   In the multimedia era, some journalists from Western media outlets,
   together with their Filipino peers, livestream on China's legitimate
   expulsions of the Philippine ships, in an attempt to create "panic"
   among countries and regions in the South China Sea, warned Chinese
   experts.
   "That has put pressure on our law enforcement in the South China Sea,"
   said Ma Bo, a scholar at the Collaborative Innovation Center for South
   China Sea Studies, Nanjing University.
   Since the Marcos Jr administration came to power, especially after
   signing the Enhanced Defense Cooperation Agreement with the US early
   this year, the Philippines has been standing with the US-led West in
   tarnishing China's image on South China Sea issues, said Ma. "Their
   tactics include, but are not limited to, public opinion warfare
   targeting China," he told the Global Times.
   Unforeseen consequences
   Currently, the Philippines' provocative actions on China's territory in
   the South China Sea, coupled with the rampant fabrication of false
   information, have created a certain political resonance with the
   Western media. Observers pointed out that such collaboration satisfies
   the selfish desires of some politicians, while deceiving people
   domestically and internationally to the detriment of regional peace.
   The Philippines has become increasingly aggressive, testing China's
   limits and assessing the US' commitment as its ally, noted Ma.
   Following recent incidents of provocation, the US and Japan have been
   prompt to express their support for the Philippines in diplomatic
   terms.
   "While the US is not a directly involved party in the South China Sea
   issue, it has been meddling in the matter, using the disputes between
   China and the Philippines over Ren'ai Jiao, and even the South China
   Sea, as a means to contain China," Ma said.
   Recently, the US' Diplomat magazine reported on the collision between
   Chinese and Philippine vessels near a disputed shoal in October. It
   asserted that given China's increasingly confident demeanor, a real
   conflict was only a matter of time. However, the reality is that it is
   the Philippines and its deep-rooted alliance with the US that has
   irresponsibly and irrationally provoked conflicts, and deliberately put
   on a show for the media, Dai said.
   Observers point out that the rampant spread of purposeful fake news not
   only impacts the China-Philippines relationship but also hinders the
   negotiation of the Code of Conduct (COC) in the South China Sea, as
   well as undermines the continuity and strengthening of China's
   strategic mutual trust with the ASEAN. At the same time, once fake news
   stirs up nationalist sentiments within the Philippines, it will also be
   of great detriment for the country.
   Such propaganda theatrics are likely to continue between the
   Philippines and some Western media, but we hope that the Philippines
   will reconsider its stance and exercise restraint, making a genuine
   choice to promote a peaceful resolution to the South China Sea issue,
   Ma said.
   RELATED ARTICLES
   [d62e65a5-fc01-4564-b4f5-e755b41223fe_s.jpeg]
   PLA Navy's newly commissioned Type 055 large destroyer holds drills in
   South China Sea

   A 10,000 ton-class large destroyer newly commissioned into the Chinese
   People's Liberation Army (PLA) earlier in 2023 recently ...
   [47f5af05-b0f8-4179-9085-63deca4ec72b_s.jpeg]
   China to hold military drills with SE Asian countries amid tensions in
   South China Sea

   China will hold a joint military exercise with five Southeast Asian
   countries this month, with experts saying on ...
   [9b9ee4d1-e65e-416f-89ea-970e54e311c1_s.jpeg]
   US shadow grows over South China Sea

   In a video message to the Opening Ceremony of the Symposium on Global
   Maritime Cooperation and Ocean Governance ...

   [close.png]
   []
