   #The Vanderbilt Hustler RSS 2.0 The Vanderbilt Hustler RSS .92 The
   Vanderbilt Hustler Atom 0.3 The Vanderbilt Hustler » GUEST EDITORIAL: I
   used to promote Zionist propaganda Comments Feed alternate


   The Vanderbilt Hustler
                    # Campus
                    # Music
                    # Nashville
                    # Personal
                    # Sports


   The official student newspaper of Vanderbilt University

The Vanderbilt Hustler


   The Vanderbilt Hustler
                    # Campus
                    # Music
                    # Nashville
                    # Personal
                    # Sports


   The official student newspaper of Vanderbilt University

The Vanderbilt Hustler


   The Vanderbilt Hustler
                    # Campus
                    # Music
                    # Nashville
                    # Personal
                    # Sports


   The official student newspaper of Vanderbilt University

The Vanderbilt Hustler


GUEST EDITORIAL: I used to promote Zionist propaganda

   A Vanderbilt alum shares their journey from on-campus Israel advocate
   to Palestinian liberation activist.
   By Lo Meisel, Guest Writer
   November 26, 2023
   Students hold Palestinian flag at rally, as photographed Oct. 27, 2023.
   Students hold Palestinian flag at rally, as photographed Oct. 27, 2023.

   As a Vanderbilt sophomore in 2016, I was recruited for a seemingly
   great opportunity: I could go on a nearly free trip to Israel with a
   national organization called The David Project (TDP). The program,
   called “Israel Uncovered,” specifically targeted non-Jewish students
   with an interest in activism and a desire to learn more about Israel
   and Palestine firsthand — and I fit the bill.

   Before I knew it, I was in Israel with 40 or so other students from
   Aviv, swam in the Dead Sea and ate falafel in Bethlehem. As an
   Armenian, I had a powerful experience in the Armenian Quarter of
   Jerusalem, looking at the walls adorned with flags and posters calling
   for recognition and remembrance of the Armenian Genocide. I felt a
   strong solidarity with Jewish people, as victims and survivors of
   untold atrocities.

   As the trip went on, however, the focus shifted from unbiased education
   to propaganda, although I didn’t realize it at the time. We traveled to
   the Israeli settlement of Almog in the West Bank, where the settlers
   explained their moral responsibility to “take back their rightful
   land.” They did not mention that, according to the U.N. and Amnesty
   International, they are violating international law and committing a
   war crime by occupying Palestinian territory. We also spoke to people
   in Sderot, an Israeli city on the Gaza border, who told us they live
   every day in fear that a bomb will be launched at them and that they’ll
   have 30 seconds or less to find a bomb shelter. We felt their pain and
   cried with them; we did not, however, talk or cry with anyone less than
   a kilometer away in Gaza, who lived with that same fear but without any
   bomb shelters.

   After we returned home, the propaganda intensified. We were all offered
   positions as paid interns for TDP, which I eagerly accepted. I started
   hosting collaborative events with various multicultural organizations
   recruiting other people to join the organization. I happily checked my
   boxes and cashed my checks. I was then invited to participate in the
   Relationship Building Institute, a conference held by TDP supposedly
   about making positive social change on campus. In reality, TDP spread
   lies and half-truths to convince us that Israel cares about social
   justice and that young activists like us should support the country’s
   right to exist and defend itself.

   For years, I lived with cognitive dissonance, believing myself to be a
   good-hearted and intelligent Israel advocate while simultaneously
   getting into Facebook-comment wars with progressive peers and learning
   that many of the activists I admired — like Angela Davis, Judith Butler
   and Malala Yousafzai — supported Palestinian liberation. At a political
   conference in April 2021, I attended a talk by Palestinian educator and
   about Palestine that I couldn’t refute or ignore.

   Inspired by her words, I began doing research with an open mind. I read
   that Zionism is a justification for colonialism, similar to Manifest
   Destiny: both beliefs claim one group of people is spiritually entitled
   to land, even if a different group already lives there. In the U.S.,
   settlers characterized the Indigenous people as savage, subhuman and
   less deserving than the “developed” Europeans. Similarly, Israeli Prime
   Minister Benjamin Netanyahu claimed that Israel is fighting “a battle
   Gallant called Israel’s targets “human animals.” These dehumanizing
   narratives seek to justify atrocities in the past and present.

    Armed with new knowledge, I started critically reflecting on my
   experiences, and I realized I had been deceived. Organizations like TDP
   spend inconceivable amounts of money on free or cheap trips, paid
   internships and conferences just to indoctrinate a handful of students
   and get them to proselytize to the rest of their campuses. They want to
   pressure well-intentioned students into supporting Israel, and
   unfortunately, it worked on me.

   I often feel ashamed of myself for succumbing to the propaganda. I
   should have been more critical, done more research and avoided TDP in
   the first place. I’m embarrassed by how little it took to buy my
   support, how much harm I caused my peers at Vanderbilt and how long I
   believed the lies. However, rather than stagnating in the shame of my
   past, I want to build support and empathy for Palestinians going
   forward.

   I am a descendant of Armenian Genocide survivors. My family and
   millions more were killed or displaced in 1915 while the U.S. and the
   international community turned a blind eye. In fact, Adolf Hitler
   justified his plans for the Holocaust by saying, “Who, after all,
   speaks today of the annihilation of the Armenians?” In 2023, Armenians
   experienced another ethnic cleansing in the territory of Artsakh. While
   diasporans and allies around the world called for attention and
   support, very little was done, and Artsakh was violently seized and
   conquered by Azerbaijan — with weapons supplied by Israel. In the past
   month, armed Israeli settlers have attempted to seize land and property
   in the Armenian Quarter of Jerusalem and faced no legal repercussions.
   Once again, no one remembers the Armenians.

   I cannot look at what is happening to my people in Artsakh and
   Jerusalem without also thinking about the Palestinians in Gaza. I
   cannot separate myself from their struggle, so I must dedicate myself
   to their liberation. I may lose friends, future job prospects and
   sleep, but I would not want to live normally in ignorance while my
   siblings in Palestine suffer. Now, I hope to support the Palestinian
   people by sharing my story and shedding light on the powerful,
   insidious nature of right-wing imperialist propaganda.
   “

   I cannot separate myself from their struggle, so I must dedicate myself
   to their liberation. I may lose friends, future job prospects and
   sleep, but I would not want to live normally in ignorance while my
   siblings in Palestine suffer.

   It is so easy to fall into carefully set traps and use our power to
   harm and silence others. We must, therefore, remain challengeable and
   willing to challenge others. If our friends and family start
   internalizing and repeating the propaganda of oppressors, we must
   address it and offer education. In turn, we must also surround

   Most importantly, we must value every single life equally. It is true
   that 1,200 Israelis were killed in a terrorist attack on October 7, and
   those people had families who are grieving and suffering. It is also
   true that, as of publication, over 14,500 Palestinians have been killed
   from Israel’s retaliatory raids and airstrikes, and each of them is
   just as deserving of our empathy. Israel’s attacks have targeted Gaza’s
   largest hospital, Gaza’s largest refugee camp and several U.N.-run
   schools. Among the victims are children whose headless bodies had to be
   dug out of rubble, young men who were too shy to kiss each other while
   alive and reporters wearing press vests trying to do their jobs. They
   are not terrorists, and they do not deserve the horror Israel has
   brought upon them. We must all resist the propaganda that would
   convince us otherwise.

   TDP has since merged with Hillel International and is now a part of the
   Hillel U Center for Community Outreach. The Israel Uncovered program in
   which I participated no longer exists, at least by that name.
   Universities and organizations host trips that promote Zionism, though,
   such as Birthright, Onward Israel, the Jewish National Fund’s
   Alternative Winter Break, Volunteers for Israel and Young Judaea’s
   Amirim internship program. With so many programs and so few critical
   evaluations of each of them, it may be harder than ever for students to
   make informed, moral decisions.

   I no longer attend Vanderbilt, so I only know what I can see online. I
   see the organizations I used to lead, The McGill Project and Vanderbilt
   Lambda Association, raising awareness for upcoming events but not the
   genocide in Palestine, and I wonder if I had a lasting negative
   influence. I see the Vigil on Library Lawn to honor the Israelis killed
   went to the community prayer for the Palestinians killed in
   retaliation. I see Dores for Israel posting in support of Israel’s
   right to exist and defend itself, and I wonder if any of their 1,400
   Instagram followers have given a thought to Palestine’s right to exist
   and defend itself as well.

   I sincerely hope there are hard conversations happening on campus and
   actions being taken in ways that I have not seen yet. I love the
   Vanderbilt community too much to let it fall into the pits of
   propaganda that I used to spread.
   1
   30

   View comments (1)
   About the Contributor
   Lo Meisel, Guest Writer
   Lo Meisel graduated from the HOD Community Leadership & Development
   program in 2019 and has since been involved with community organizing
   in the United States and Australia. They can be reached at
   More to Discover
   More about Israel-Hamas War
   Protest flyers taped to the glass doors of the Benton Chapel lobby, as
   photographed on Nov. 30, 2023. (Hustler Multimedia/George Albu)
   Divinity students, SJP organize in support of Gaza ceasefire
   Chancellor Diermeier with Hustler Podcast Director Kate Connell,
   Photography Director Barrie Barto, Sports Editor Andrew Wilf and News
   Editor Brina Ratangee (left to right), as photographed on Dec. 4, 2023.
   Debrief with Diermeier: Balancing free speech and commitment to student
   safety
   Students protest on campus in support of Israel, as photographed Oct.
   27, 2023. (Hustler Multimedia/Barrie Barto)
   GUEST EDITORIAL: Vanderbilt should take a stronger stand on
   Israel-Palestine conflict
   More about Israel-Palestine Conflict
   A protester carries a Free Palestine sign in front of the Parthenon, as
   photographed on Nov. 11, 2023. (Hustler Multimedia/Savannah Walske)
   Protesters call for ceasefire in Middle East at Centennial Park
   Pictures from students protesting in support of Palestine outside of
   Rand, Israeli flag in front of Nashville legislative building, as
   photographed Oct. 27, 2023. (Hustler Multimedia/Barrie Barto)
   Students rally outside Rand Dining Hall in support of Israel, Palestine
   Students support each other as prayers are spoken over Palestine, as
   photographed on Oct. 13, 2023. (Hustler Multimedia/Urmika Nandwani)
   IN PHOTOS: SJP and MSA host community prayer for Palestinian lives lost

The Vanderbilt Hustler

   The official student newspaper of Vanderbilt University
   Facebook
   Instagram
   X
   LinkedIn
   Sarratt Room 130
   2301 Vanderbilt Place
   Nashville, TN 37235

   views and opinions expressed in this publication are those of the
   authors and do not necessarily reflect the policy or position of
   Vanderbilt University and its official representatives. Vanderbilt® and
   Vanderbilt logos are registered trademarks of Vanderbilt University, ©
   2023 Vanderbilt University • FLEX Pro WordPress Theme by SNO • Log in

   wpDiscuz



Comments (1)

   The Vanderbilt Hustler welcomes and encourages readers to engage with
   content and express opinions through the comment sections on our
   website and social media platforms. The Hustler reserves the right to
   remove comments that contain vulgarity, hate speech, personal attacks
   comment sections are moderated by our Editor-in-Chief, Rachael
   Perrotta, and our Social Media Director, Chloe Postlewaite. You can
   reach them at [email protected] and [email protected].
   All The Vanderbilt Hustler picks Reader picks Sort: Newest
   Subscribe
   Login
   Notify of
   ›
   guest
   Label
                       
   guest
   Label
                       
   1 Comment
   Newest
   Oldest Most Voted
   Inline Feedbacks
   View all comments
   A
   Anonymous
   14 days ago

   Palestines right to defend itself and Hamas committing a heinous act of
   violence and war are two separate things. What occurred oct 7th was not
   defense. it was a full scale attack. if we are going to talk about
   propaganda, maybe saying hamas is a defense organization would be part
   -4
   Reply
