
   Skip to main content
   ABC News Homepage
   Search
   Loading

More from ABC


Editorial Policies

   Read our editorial guiding principles



   News HomeABC News Homepage

   Opposition labels China's denial of sonar incident propaganda

Opposition labels China's denial of sonar incident propaganda

   By political reporter Georgia Roberts
   Posted Tue 21 Nov 2023 at 1:55amTuesday 21 Nov 2023 at 1:55amTue 21 Nov
   2023 at 1:55am
   Loading...
   abc.net.au/news/china-denies-sonar-incident-peter-dutton-says-it-is-pro
   paganda/103130288

   China's denial that it sent sonar pulses that left Australian naval
   divers with minor injuries has been labelled propaganda by the

Key points:

       mission in the East China Sea
       to the sonar incident
       robust response

   HMAS Toowoomba had been operating in the East China Sea, within Japan's
   exclusive economic zone, in support of a United Nations mission to
   enforce sanctions when the incident occurred.

   Naval divers were working to clear fishing nets from the Australian
   frigate's propellers when the Chinese warship began operating its
   hull-mounted sonar.

   Defence Minister Richard Marles said the sonar was activated despite
   the Chinese ship receiving multiple warnings that the personnel were

   "Despite acknowledging Toowoomba's communications, the Chinese vessel
   approached at a closer range. Soon after, it was detected operating its
   hull-mounted sonar in a manner that posed a risk to the safety of the
   Australian divers who were forced to exit the water," the minister said
   in a statement.

   China's defence ministry denied carrying out any activities that might
   have affected Australian diving operations: "China kept a safe distance
   from the Australian ship," a statement from its defence ministry said.

   On Monday Prime Minister Anthony Albanese, speaking before Beijing
   denied the incident, said the Chinese vessel's use of its sonar was
   "dangerous, it was unsafe and unprofessional".

   He added the naval incident was harmful to efforts to repair relations
   between the two countries.

   "This certainly is an event that does do damage and we've made that
   very clear to China," he said.

   Mr Albanese did not say when the government raised its concerns with
   China, or to whom it made representations — a lack of detail that has
   been criticised by the opposition.

   The federal government has been on a campaign to stabilise relations
   with China following years of diplomatic relations being in a deep
   freeze and trade sanctions being imposed by China on several Australian
   exports.

Xi's diplomacy game is on show

   Just days before Xi Jinping and Anthony Albanese shook hands at the
   APEC summit, Australian divers were injured by Chinese sonar. It begs
   the question, is the on-stage diplomacy all for show?
   Anthony Albanese smiles while shaking hands with Xi Jinping, whose head
   is turned away from camera
   Read more

   Since Labor's election, diplomatic communications have restarted, trade
   bans have lifted, and earlier this month Mr Albanese became the first
   prime minister since 2016 to officially visit Beijing.

   Chinese Defence Ministry spokesman Wu Qian, speaking to China Daily,
   labelled Australia's comments on the sonar incident as "completely
   untrue".

   Wu went on to urge Australia to "stop making reckless and irresponsible
   accusations against China" and "to create a positive atmosphere for the
   sound development of relations between the two countries and two
   militaries".

   On Tuesday, Opposition Leader Peter Dutton said China's denial of the
   sonar incident was "propaganda and we shouldn't abide it for a second".

   "It's exactly what happens in relation to Japan, in relation to the
   Philippines, and in relation to other countries in the region," Mr
   Dutton said.

   "The fact is that there is aggressive behaviour taking place and our
   country should call it out."

   Clashes between Philippine and Chinese vessels have been occurring
   and Beijing were heightened by the presence of a Chinese surveillance
   ship operating off the West Australian coast, close to a secretive
   naval communications base at Exmouth.
   Posted 21 Nov 202321 Nov 2023Tue 21 Nov 2023 at 1:55am
   Share

   More on:

Top Stories


'Bringing migration to a sustainable level': New strategy aims to cut
Australian arrivals
       Analysis by John Lyons

There are two wars going on in Gaza right now — the one Israelis are
watching, and the one the rest of the world sees

'I may have to resign': Court documents allege NDIS commissioner mistakenly
misled Four Corners over autism program

Sydney and Melbourne often vie for cultural supremacy. In the cost-of-living
stakes, there's a clear winner

Ariarne Titmus intended to keep her surgery 'under wraps' but selfie requests
from nurses changed that

'This is a diagnosis I never wanted to hear': Chris Evert is undergoing
chemotherapy after the return of cancer

Alan and Kerry 'just fit'. Then out of nowhere, he was shot dead by his
neighbours. She believes no-one will ever really know why

Known as 'white death', a terrifying weather phenomenon is changing lives and
unleashing horror in Mongolia

'How we discovered the hidden gem': The super app that influences
Chinese-speaking diaspora

'People calling me a terrorist': Canberra students subject to racist taunts
as Israel-Gaza war rages

Police investigate shooting outside Melbourne strip club

Winds to ramp up on Queensland's north coast as Cyclone Jasper continues its
approach

Roofs torn off homes by storm after NSW swelters through early summer
heatwave

Police arrest 72 climate protesters in heart of Melbourne for failing to obey
traffic direction

It's one of the loudest sounds in the ocean, but is it killing whales?

Popular Now

   1.

Winds to ramp up on Queensland's north coast as Cyclone Jasper continues its
approach

   Cyclone Jasper approaches Queensland Coast
   2.

'Bringing migration to a sustainable level': New strategy aims to cut
Australian arrivals

   A Qantas plane taxies along a runway in overcast conditions while
   passengers seated inside watch on.
   3.

'I may have to resign': Court documents allege NDIS commissioner mistakenly
misled Four Corners over autism program

   A close portrait of a woman in business attire, who is looking at the
   camera with a neutral expression.
   4.

Known as 'white death', a terrifying weather phenomenon is changing lives and
unleashing horror in Mongolia

   A man wearing a blue robe with yellow belt around the middle, and a cap
   5.

Alan and Kerry 'just fit'. Then out of nowhere, he was shot dead by his
neighbours. She believes no-one will ever really know why

   a digitally layered image with insets of three shooting victims, a
   family member of a victim and a sparse landscape in the back
   6.

Ariarne Titmus intended to keep her surgery 'under wraps' but selfie requests
from nurses changed that

   Ariarne smiles softly in a selfie of her lying in bed in her silk
   stripped pajamas.

Top Stories

    1.

'Bringing migration to a sustainable level': New strategy aims to cut
Australian arrivals
       A Qantas plane taxies along a runway in overcast conditions while
       passengers seated inside watch on.
    2. John Lyons
       Analysis by John Lyons

There are two wars going on in Gaza right now — the one Israelis are
watching, and the one the rest of the world sees
    3.

'I may have to resign': Court documents allege NDIS commissioner mistakenly
misled Four Corners over autism program
    4.

Sydney and Melbourne often vie for cultural supremacy. In the cost-of-living
stakes, there's a clear winner
    5.

Ariarne Titmus intended to keep her surgery 'under wraps' but selfie requests
from nurses changed that

Just In


Police investigate shooting outside Melbourne strip club
       37m ago37 minutes agoSat 9 Dec 2023 at 9:28pm

'People calling me a terrorist': Canberra students subject to racist taunts
as Israel-Gaza war rages
       57m ago57 minutes agoSat 9 Dec 2023 at 9:09pm

Ariarne Titmus intended to keep her surgery 'under wraps' but selfie requests
from nurses changed that
       58m ago58 minutes agoSat 9 Dec 2023 at 9:07pm

Pelicans injured by fishing hooks rescued in time by passing SA kayakers
       1h ago1 hours agoSat 9 Dec 2023 at 9:02pm

   More Just In
   Back to top

Footer

   ABC News homepage
   More From ABC NEWS

   We acknowledge Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples as the
   First Australians and Traditional Custodians of the lands where we
   live, learn, and work.

Sections


News in language


Connect with ABC News


More from ABC News


   This service may include material from Agence France-Presse (AFP),
   APTN, Reuters, AAP, CNN and the BBC World Service which is copyright
   and cannot be reproduced.

   AEST = Australian Eastern Standard Time which is 10 hours ahead of GMT
