   Skip to main content
   Exclusive news, data and analytics for financial market
   professionalsLearn more aboutRefinitiv
   Reuters home
     * World (BUTTON)
     * Business (BUTTON)
     * Markets (BUTTON)
     * Sustainability (BUTTON)
     * Legal (BUTTON)
     * Breakingviews
     * Technology (BUTTON)
     * Investigations
     * (BUTTON) More

   (BUTTON) My View
   (BUTTON)
   Register
   (BUTTON)
     * World

Chinese propaganda frames Xi's US pivot

   By Antoni Slodkowski and Laurie Chen
   November 16, 202312:31 PM UTCUpdated ago
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)

   (BUTTON)
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   "Senior Chinese Leader Event" on the sidelines of the APEC summit, in
   San Francisco
   (BUTTON)

   [1/2]China's President Xi Jinping speaks at the "Senior Chinese Leader
   Event" held by the National Committee on US-China Relations and the
   US-China Business Council on the sidelines of the Asia-Pacific Economic
   Cooperation (APEC) summit in San Francisco, California, U.S., November
   15, 2023. ... Acquire Licensing Rights Read more
   (BUTTON) (BUTTON)

   BEIJING, Nov 16 (Reuters) - What a difference eight months makes: In
   March, shortly after the U.S. shot down a suspected Chinese
   surveillance balloon, President Xi Jinping blamed it for challenges
   faced by China's economy, complaining of "all-round containment".

   Then on Wednesday, U.S. President Joe Biden and Xi agreed to open a
   presidential hotline, resume military-to-military communications and
   work to curb fentanyl production, showing tangible progress in their
   first face-to-face talks in a year at a summit in California.

   While key issues like U.S. sanctions on chip exports remain unresolved,
   Chinese state media is now striking a different tone, focusing on Xi's
   smile during past trips to Iowa, fireside chats with its residents, and
   sharing chocolates with Biden.

   Clips from the summit on China's social media show the two leaders
   walking in gardens at the site of the talks, and chatting by Xi's
   official limousine, with discussion of U.S. tech curbs and tension over
   Taiwan featuring less prominently.

   The Chinese rhetoric seeks to show Xi to a domestic audience as Biden's
   equal and highlights his desire to stabilise ties as China grapples
   with a moribund economy, analysts say. It also sends a signal of
   approval to the bureaucracy and businesses on engaging with Americans.

   "It reflects a very strong desire on the part of Chinese leaders to
   stabilise relations with the U.S. and push for more cooperation," said
   Li Mingjiang, international relations scholar at the Rajaratnam School
   of International Studies in Singapore.

   "There's this fundamental message in the Chinese narrative that the
   Chinese leader is capable of managing China-U.S. relations ... he is
   the one who gives instructions to the U.S. and the American leadership
   on how to manage the bilateral ties."

   China's domestic propaganda machine worked overtime to pave the way for
   Xi's pivot, also evident at a dinner with U.S. executives, when he
   pledged that China was ready to be a "partner and friend" of the U.S.
   and there was "plenty of room for bilateral cooperation".

   With official ties still strained, Chinese state media has focused on
   relations between the people and emphasised the potential for
   cooperation and importance of the summit for the Asia-Pacific region.

   "The international community watches with bated breath, recognising the
   weight of this meeting," the state news agency Xinhua said in an
   editorial. "When China-U.S. relations are good, the region benefits;
   when relations sour, the region suffers."

'AMERICAN FRIENDS'

   Xinhua also ran a 1,500-word report reminiscing about Xi's past visits
   to the U.S..

   "Xi never forgets his American friends and believes that people hold
   the key to state-to-state relations," the news agency said.

   The report cited Iowans who helped coordinate a 1985 trip Xi made to
   the state as a young official, describing his "smile that would not
   stop", and lauding his curiosity. It also described Biden and Xi
   sampling chocolates from a box during a past exchange.

   Gary Dvorchak, an Iowan considered by Xi an old friend of China, said
   Xi's fondness for Iowa was genuine but that the Chinese leader also
   used his ties to the state for propaganda value.

   “It humanises him and it gives him an ability to show a connection to
   the American people and bypass the American media,” said Dvorchak.

   “They use it when they need to bolster his support domestically or
   internationally,” said Dvorchak, who said he thought it was canny
   public relations.

   “Part of the reason it works is because those feelings are real.”

   But even on censored Chinese social media users found ways to make
   critical comments on the tone of the official commentary.

   "Where did the relations improve? Tariffs, chips, studying overseas,
   none of these are mentioned."

   On the Weibo Chinese microblogging site, the most popular hashtag on
   Thursday still harked back to tension over Taiwan: "China must be and
   will be reunified."

   Additional reporting by Albee Zhang and Beijing newsroom, Michael
   Martina in Washington and Greg Torode in Hong Kong; editing by Robert
   Birsel

   Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
   (BUTTON)
   (BUTTON)
     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

   Acquire Licensing Rights, opens new tab


   [4QXBW6RP45FBRHDZQXLNRGX5UY.jpg]
   Laurie Chen

   Thomson Reuters

   Laurie Chen is a China Correspondent at Reuters' Beijing bureau,
   covering politics and general news. Before joining Reuters, she
   reported on China for six years at Agence France-Presse and the South
   China Morning Post in Hong Kong. She speaks fluent Mandarin.
     *
     *

Read Next

     * Handout photo shows a wreck believed to belong to the U.S. military
       aircraft MV-22 Osprey that crashed into the sea off Yakushima
       Island, Japan
       Worldcategory

US military aircraft crashes in sea off Japan killing at least one
       10:27 AM UTC
     * Prisoners are released as part of a deal between Israel and
       Palestinian Islamist group Hamas
       Middle Eastcategory

Israel, Hamas seek new deal to extend Gaza truce on final day
       11:15 AM UTC · Updated ago
     * Workers, who were rescued from a tunnel which collapsed in
       Uttarkashi, walk to board an Indian Air Force's Chinook helicopter
       to be airlifted to AIIMS Rishikesh hospital, in Chinyalisaur
       Indiacategory

'Like brothers': Rescued Indian tunnel workers stayed hopeful through ordeal
       9:17 AM UTC
     * ICC Cricket World Cup 2023 - Final - India v Australia
       Indiacategory

Kashmiri students arrested for celebrating India's Cricket World Cup defeat
       November 28, 2023

   LSEG Workspace

More from Reuters

World

     * A general view of the business district in Colombo

Sri Lanka reaches debt restructuring deal with creditor nations -
government source
       Asia Pacificcategory · November 29, 2023 · 7:51 AM UTC
       Sri Lanka has been informed that a debt-restructuring agreement
       with creditor nations has been reached but is yet to receive a
       letter of confirmation from the official creditor committee, a
       government source told Reuters on Wednesday.
     * Older people line up at a coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
       vaccination site
       United Statescategory

US life expectancy climbs in 2022 after COVID retreat
       5:07 AM UTC
     * Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) Governor Adrian Orr is pictured
       during an interview at the bank in Wellington
       Asia Pacificcategory

New Zealand's central bank defends Maori language use
       8:23 AM UTC
     * Members of K-pop boy band BTS pose for photographs during a news
       conference promoting their new album Asia Pacificcategory

Four BTS members to begin S.Korean military service mid-December - media
       8:40 AM UTC
     * Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov attends a joint press
       conference with Venezuela's Foreign Minister Yvan Gil Pinto in
       Moscow
       Europecategory

Russia says it has got lots of requests for meetings with Lavrov at OSCE
meeting
       9:39 AM UTC

Site Index

Browse

     * World
     * Business
     * Markets
     * Sustainability
     * Legal
     * Breakingviews
     * Technology
     * Investigations, opens new tab
     * Sports
     * Science
     * Lifestyle

About Reuters

     * About Reuters, opens new tab
     * Careers, opens new tab
     * Reuters News Agency, opens new tab
     * Brand Attribution Guidelines, opens new tab
     * Reuters Leadership, opens new tab
     * Reuters Fact Check, opens new tab
     * Reuters Diversity Report, opens new tab

Stay Informed

     * Download the App (iOS), opens new tab
     * Download the App (Android), opens new tab
     * Newsletters, opens new tab

Information you can trust

   Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s
   largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide
   every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and
   international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's
   media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.

Follow Us

     *
     *
     *
     *
     *

Thomson Reuters Products

     * Westlaw, opens new tab
       Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content,
       attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
     * Onesource, opens new tab
       The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and
       ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
     * Checkpoint, opens new tab
       The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and
       finance professionals.

LSEG Products

     * Workspace, opens new tab
       Access unmatched financial data, news and content in a
       highly-customised workflow experience on desktop, web and mobile.
     * Data Catalogue, opens new tab
       Browse an unrivalled portfolio of real-time and historical market
       data and insights from worldwide sources and experts.
     * World-Check, opens new tab
       Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help
       uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.

     * Advertise With Us, opens new tab
     * Advertising Guidelines, opens new tab
     * Coupons, opens new tab
     * Acquire Licensing Rights, opens new tab

     * Cookies, opens new tab
     * Terms of Use, opens new tab
     * Privacy, opens new tab
     * Digital Accessibility, opens new tab
     * Corrections, opens new tab
     * Site Feedback, opens new tab

   All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete
   list of exchanges and delays.

   © 2023 Reuters. All rights reserved
