   #POLITICO » Feed alternate alternate alternate



   Wednesday, December 6, 2023


   Politico Pro

   Politico Pro


POLITICO Live


Editions


Publications


POLITICO Research and Analysis Division



Discover POLITICO Pro

   In-depth reporting, data and actionable intelligence for policy
   professionals – all in one place.

What is POLITICO Pro?

Policy areas

Our Pro coverage

Request a demo

Contact us

   Hot Topics

ISIS propaganda seducing ‘new generation of teenagers,’ French domestic intel

   Security chief warns Islamist ideology is likely to exist for a very
   long time to come.
   FRANCE-POLITICS-PENSIONS-DEMO-SECURITY
   General Directorate for Internal Security (DGSI) Director General
   Nicolas Lerner | Ludovic Marin/AFP via Getty Images
   By Pierre Emmanuel Ngendakumana
   December 6, 2023 8:34 pm CET
   2 minutes read

   A new generation of French teenagers is being wooed by the Islamic
   State terrorist group — infamous for its on-camera immolations of
   captives in Iraq — and seems ominously susceptible to the group’s
   propaganda, according to the head of France’s DGSI internal security
   directorate, Nicolas Lerner.

   France — home to Europe’s largest Jewish and Muslim populations — has
   suffered multiple terrorist attacks in the past few months, most
   recently last weekend near the Eiffel Tower in Paris when a German man
   was killed and two others were injured. A French prosecutor said the
   perpetrator had pledged allegiance to Islamic State.

   “The three attack plots foiled by the DGSI in 2023 involved individuals
   who were all under the age of 20,” Lerner said in a Thursday interview
   with Le Monde, in which he claimed they were members of this group.
   Lerner used the terms Islamic State and ISIS interchangeably.

   “The youngest was 13 years old. Two others were 14 years old. In
   several of these cases … these young people did not go to mosques or
   places of socialization: They structured themselves online, on social
   networks, through a very worrying ideological and digital confinement.”

You may like

US envoy slams Orbán as a leader who ‘embraces Putin’

   By Seb Starcevic

David Cameron is living his best life — while Boris Johnson squirms

   By Annabelle Dickson and Esther Webber

EU warns of ‘huge risk’ of terrorist attacks before Christmas

   By Pierre Emmanuel Ngendakumana

   Lerner said the current conflict between Israel and Hamas has had
   “undeniably” direct consequences for France.

   “Our analysis is that the attraction to jihadist ideology significantly
   diminished due to the rout of [Islamic State] in the years 2017-2018,
   especially among the generations that had committed themselves in the
   early 2010s.

   “But ISIS propaganda is now coming back to seduce a new generation of
   teenagers who, for various reasons — a quest for identity, the echo of
   a discourse of victimization, or a glorification of violent impulses
   that they may otherwise feed — are once again showing themselves to be
   sensitive to this deadly ideology.”

   EU Home Affairs Commissioner Ylva Johansson also warned on Tuesday of a
   “huge risk” of terror attacks in the bloc before Christmas, linking the
   threat to the ongoing Israel-Hamas war.

   “Jihadist ideology is not dead,” Lerner said. “ISIS has a new appeal
   among these younger generations.”
   More from ... Pierre Emmanuel Ngendakumana

Related Content


UK minister insists Tories will meet pledge to build a million homes despite
‘shortfall’
       The governing Conservatives have faced pressure over a 2019
       manifesto pledge to build 300,000 homes annually by the mid-2020s |
       Christopher Furlong/Getty Images

Germany’s Baerbock chides Orbán and Serbia in fiery remarks
       German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock also lashed out at
       Serbian President Aleksandar Vučić for cozying up to Russia | Pool
       photo by Sebastian Gollnow via Getty images

Why Prince Harry is fighting the UK government in court
       Prince Harry alleged bias on the part of the royal-linked Ravec in
       earlier hearings | Joern Pollex/Getty Images for Invictus Games
       Düsseldorf 2023

French hunters’ lobby launches EU election bid
       The party will fight to protect the interests of traditional rural
       against the "administrative burden" created by EU institutions |
       Lionel Bonaventure/AFP via Getty Images

Greta Thunberg accuses Israel of ‘war crimes’ and ‘genocide’
       Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg | Dan Kitwood/Getty
       Images

Careers at POLITICO


Mobility Reporter (Brussels)
       Location: Brussels | Department: Editorial

Accounts Receivable Accountant
       Location: Brussels | Department: Finance & Legal

Summits Trainee (Brussels)
       Location: Brussels | Department: Product & Mktg


View the Latest Issue

   Read the latest print issue online

Next up

   Israel could open second front in Lebanon, defense minister hints

Israel could open second front in Lebanon, defense minister hints

   December 6, 2023 8:17 pm CET
   By Jamie Dettmer
   Help wanted: Belgian ambassador (f)
   Special Report: Belgian Presidency of the EU

Help wanted: Belgian ambassador (f)

   December 6, 2023 1:48 pm CET
   By Barbara Moens, Hanne Cokelaere and Camille Gijs
   Belgian army will be throwing ‘stones’ within hours of a war starting,
   laments ex-general

Belgian army will be throwing ‘stones’ within hours of a war starting,
laments ex-general

   December 6, 2023 1:07 pm CET
   By Joshua Posaner
   Nepal arrests 10 on suspicion of recruiting locals for Russian army

Nepal arrests 10 on suspicion of recruiting locals for Russian army

   December 6, 2023 12:44 pm CET
   By Veronika Melkozerova
   Related Tags
   Aid and development Israel-Hamas war Security Terrorism War
   Related Countries
   France Israel
   Related People
   Ylva Johansson

Explore politico EU

       and guest writers in Europe.
       beyond.
       beyond.
       in Europe and beyond.
       world’s pandemic response.
       and beyond.
       beyond.
       and guest writers on the continent.


Explore Products


       intelligence for policy professionals – all in one place.

   Politico Logo



Log in

   Log in to access content and manage your profile. If you do not have an
   account you can register here.

   Email address
   Password

   Forgot your password?

   By logging in, you confirm acceptance of our POLITICO Privacy Policy.
