    #Silicon Valley » Feed Silicon Valley » Comments Feed alternate
   alternate alternate


   Skip to content

   All Sections
   Subscribe Now
   45°F
   Saturday, December 9th 2023

   Today's E-Edition
   Home Page


   Morning Report in your inbox!
   Sign Up
   Silicon Valley

Democrats accuse Twitter of profiting off Hamas…

Share this:



   Account Settings Contact Us Log Out
   Spoof a user [ ]

   Morning Report in your inbox!
   Sign Up

   45°F
   Saturday, December 9th 2023

   Today's E-Edition

Business

Democrats accuse Twitter of profiting off Hamas propaganda

The letter calls for Linda Yaccarino and Elon Musk to answer by December 1

   Chris Delmas/AFP/Getty Images
   Author
   By Cnn Com Wire Service
   PUBLISHED: November 22, 2023 at 3:52 p.m. | UPDATED: November 22, 2023
   at 4:21 p.m.

   By Brian Fung and Samantha Delouya | CNN

   A group of House Democrats has accused X, the platform formerly known
   as Twitter, of profiting from Hamas propaganda and misinformation about
   the Israel-Hamas war after reports by independent researchers found
   numerous accounts glorifying the US-sanctioned terror group.

   More than two dozen US lawmakers signed the letter dated Tuesday
   addressed to X owner Elon Musk and CEO Linda Yaccarino.

   Citing analyses by groups including the Institute for Strategic
   Dialogue, NewsGuard and the Tech Transparency Project, Tuesday’s letter
   said lawmakers were “outraged by the clear indicators that X is
   profiting from the spread of Hamas’s terrorist propaganda — both
   through monthly subscription fees collected from some propaganda
   spreaders, and through ads displayed in replies to posts by both
   Premium and regular accounts.”

   One of the reports in question, published last month, claimed to
   have identified examples of paid X subscribers sharing videos bearing
   Hamas iconography and depicting violent or gruesome images. Another
   report claimed to have identified dozens of paid X subscriber accounts
   promoting “false or unsubstantiated narratives relating to the war” and
   that posts spreading the misinformation had been viewed at least 100
   million times globally.

   “Given X’s major cuts to content moderation staff over the last year,
   it appears that X has willfully permitted, and benefited from, the
   illegal spread of terrorist propaganda,” wrote the group, led by Reps.
   Adam Schiff of California, Daniel Goldman of New York and Jamie Raskin
   social media platforms is wholly unacceptable.”

   X didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment about the
   lawmakers’ accusations.

   A new report released by NewsGuard on Wednesday claimed that ads for 86
   major advertisers, including Pizza Hut, Airbnb and Microsoft, were
   shown on viral posts that pushed false or misleading claims about the
   Israel-Hamas war. The posts were seen by a total of 92 million users on
   X, according to NewsGuard.

   X released a statement in advance of the NewsGuard report’s
   publication, calling its findings into question. X could not be reached
   for further comment Wednesday evening.

   On Tuesday, Musk abruptly announced that X would be donating “all
   revenue from advertising & subscriptions associated with the war in
   Gaza to hospitals in Israel and the Red Cross/Crescent in Gaza.” But it
   was unclear what content he was referring to and whether the
   announcement was directly related to the lawmakers’ letter. X Head of
   Business Operations Joe Benarroch declined to clarify the company’s
   plans beyond saying the donation would be “a sizeable amount.”

   The pressure from House Democrats comes amid a wider blowback to X over
   extremist content on the platform, in some cases amplified directly by
   Musk himself. In recent days, X has suffered a notable exodus of
   high-profile advertisers following Musk’s public embrace of an
   antisemitic conspiracy theory popular with White supremacists and a
   report by Media Matters, the progressive media watchdog group, that
   said major brands’ advertisements appeared beside pro-Nazi content.

   Musk sued Media Matters on Monday, accusing it of distorting the
   likelihood that ads may be shown against extremist material. But some
   legal critics have cast doubt on the complaint, calling it “weak” and
   “bogus” in the face of the First Amendment.

   Tuesday’s letter also highlights the mounting public scrutiny of
   Yaccarino, who until now has sought to position herself as a cheery
   counterweight to Musk’s flirtation with far-right extremism. The letter
   calls for Yaccarino and Musk to answer by December 1 to allegations
   that X has amplified terrorist propaganda in violation of its own
   policies.

   It comes a day after the Senate Judiciary Committee said it had
   enlisted the US Marshals Service, in a rare move, to serve Yaccarino
   with a subpoena personally, compelling her to testify at a December 6
   hearing on children’s online safety. In a release, the committee said
   it was forced to take that extraordinary measure after X declined to
   accept the subpoena on Yaccarino’s behalf, in a “remarkable departure
   from typical practice.”

Share this:


Most Popular

   Most Popular
       bottled water brand — and won
       Q&A with Amanda Frye: She took on California’s famous Arrowhead
       bottled water brand — and won
       block homeless housing?
       Is Millbrae using a ‘racist’ amendment in the state constitution to
       block homeless housing?
       San Jose will get new Ace Hardware, filling big empty store space
       Plea deal reached in vast Capitola vacation rental scam
       restaurant claims the truth has come out
       San Jose doctor in spicy ‘Dragon Balls’ lawsuit against Los Gatos
       restaurant claims the truth has come out
       proceedings
       Downtown San Jose housing complex could face foreclosure
       proceedings
       Jeep maker blames California for job cuts in their Midwest plants
       Santa Clara: Berkeley’s Boichik Bagels, made famous by New Yorkers,
       6 projects in the remaking of San Jose’s downtown
       Single family residence sells for $1.8 million in San Jose

Trending Nationally

       billion
       transformed in the next decade
       fetches $126,000
       stuck on a roof

More in News

   Venture capital funding for startups across the globe has fallen by
       more than half since last year– the annual fundraising figure for
       2023 is pacing towards its lowest level since 2015.

       Business |
       2023 was an ‘extinction’ level year for Silicon Valley startups.
       Where did all the money go?
   Single-family house in Pleasanton sells for $1.7 million

Single-family house in Pleasanton sells for $1.7 million
   Stellantis NV is eliminating a shift at a plant in Detroit and cutting
       jobs at its Toledo assembly complex, a move the company blamed on
       strict emissions standards adopted by California and more than a
       dozen other states in 2019.

       Business |
       Jeep maker blames California for job cuts in their Midwest plants
   Regulators on Friday approved two new gene therapies for sickle cell
       disease that doctors hope can cure the painful, inherited blood
       disorder that afflicts mostly Black people in the U.S.

       Science |
       FDA approves first CRISPR gene editing treatment that may cure
       sickle cell disease


   Silicon Valley


   Copyright © 2023 MediaNews Group
   Bay Area News Group
