    scorecardresearch Skip to main content

   >
   Created with Sketch. Newsletters

Watch: Globe Today

COVID

Metro


Sports


Business


Politics


Climate

Spotlight

Opinion


New Hampshire


Rhode Island


World

Globe Magazine


Lifestyle


Arts


Cars

Real Estate

Events

Search

ePaper

Magazine

Obituaries

Weather

Comics

Crossword

Events

Manage my Account

Say More

Love Letters

Mr. 80 Percent

Gladiator

Last Seen

STAT: The Readout Loud

All Podcasts

Today's Headlines

Breaking News Alerts

Sports Headlines

Today in Opinion

Globe's Most Popular

Rhode Island News

New Hampshire News

Boston Globe Today

All Newsletters

   The Boston Globe The Boston Globe
   The Boston Globe The Boston Globe
   Watch: Globe
   TodayMetroSportsBusinessPoliticsOpinionHealthCambervilleAround Mass.New
   HampshireRhode IslandCOVIDSpotlightLifestyleArtsGlobe
   MagazineTechnologyClimateEducationCarsReal EstateEvents
   Q&A

When propaganda displaces democracy

   By Nick Osborne Globe Staff,August 30, 2015, 12:00 a.m.
   This anti-Nazi propaganda poster encouraged US citizens to conserve
   gasoline during World War II. This anti-Nazi propaganda poster
   encouraged US citizens to conserve gasoline during World War II. Weimer
   Pursell illustration for US government

   Even the word “propaganda” seems to somehow scream totalitarian state,
   more suited to “1984” than a country where liberty and freedom are
   central to national identity. Yet, disturbingly, propaganda may
   actually flourish even better in the fertile soil of liberal democracy.

   Nothing in a democracy is outside the reach of propaganda, from media
   to politics to education. Its influence on citizens’ choices can’t be

   In his new book, “How Propaganda Works,” Jason Stanley, a Yale
   philosophy professor, explains it’s always been that way. Stanley
   tracks propaganda’s history across continents and through decades,
   illuminating its power to make people vote against their own best
   interests. And what he has found is the words being used may be as
   important as the politics behind them.

   Ideas spoke with Stanley by telephone. Below is an edited excerpt:

   Advertisement

   IDEAS: What do we, as citizens, need to know about the structure of
   propaganda?

   STANLEY: Propaganda is one of those issues that,
   whether you live in a democratic or totalitarian society, it’s always
   important. A problem comes from this linguistic strategy of making
   certain words say one thing but communicate another message. Some words
   have been taken and exploited for propaganda. There are innocent words
   that are politically dangerous.
   Get The Primary Source
   Globe Opinion's weekly take on politics, delivered every Wednesday.
   Enter Email

   Now, there’s a lot of work in political and social theory on these
   sorts of phenomena. More rare is to think about it in the context of
   linguistics, psychology, and epistemology to detail the actual
   mechanism at work here. You can appropriate a totally normal word.

   IDEAS: So break down what this linguistic strategy looks like.

   STANLEY: If I say, “That damn table is in my way,” all I’m saying is
   that the table is in my way. But what I’m conveying, what I’m telling
   you, is that I don’t like the table. I have a negative attitude toward
   it. Propaganda can politicize apparently nonpolitical words and give
   them what we call not-at-issue content. You can then model that content
   as an emotion, such as antipathy towards a group of people. . . .
   There’s no mystery left about how this happens. In fact, if it didn’t
   happen, that’d be a mystery.

   Advertisement

   IDEAS: Are the uses of propaganda in a democracy rooted in this same
   exploitation of words?

   STANLEY: This is actually Plato’s problem with democracy in Book VIII
   himself as the people’s protector against the threat in their midst.
   He’ll stir fear, the people will elect him, and he’ll be a tyrant. It’s
   a constant fight to try and disconnect people from this kind of fear.

   IDEAS: You quote Joseph Goebbels famously saying that democracy “has
   there something inherent about democracy that makes this true?

   STANLEY: This is the huge paradox of democracy. Plato and Goebbels are
   saying the same thing. Democracy is about freedom and equality. And
   freedom includes freedom of speech. When you let people have freedom of
   speech, they’re going to employ demagogic speech to whip people’s
   passions up and get them to vote against their interests. And that’s
   why Plato says democracy can’t work.

   IDEAS: We hear a lot of talk about the impact of money in politics. Are
   big corporate donors and rhetoric about the private sector something
   new in the discussion of propaganda or old forces reincarnated?

   STANLEY: The opposite of democracy is the managerial state. This is
   where you have a planned society, with someone running the society
   slotting you into jobs. At the beginning of the 20th century in
   America, we started having people running for office presenting
   themselves as business managers. And they would say things like, “Oh,
   I’m good at running a business.” Which is bizarre, because presumably
   when you run a business you want to grow the business and get money for
   it, not cut it down.

   Advertisement

   In the early 19th century, you wouldn’t think of a political leader as
   a business manager, because a democracy is not a company. A company is
   not a democratic thing. A company is a place where a guy tells you what
   to do. The last thing you want is a school system run like a business.
   That’s what the business culture tries to do. It tricks us into
   confusing a corporation with a state. When we’re told the state is
   being run more efficiently, we have to ask: Who is it more efficient
   for when services are cut?

   IDEAS: How can propaganda inform and educate people to defend their own
   interests in a more conscious way?

   STANLEY: All liberation movements have the need for propaganda. Because
   what happens? In a democratic society, policy is supposed to be decided
   by taking everyone’s perspective into account. Propaganda makes some
   people’s perspectives entirely invisible. You have to somehow shock
   people into recognition that there’s a perspective they haven’t been
   taking into account. And that’s what the civil rights movement was
   about: getting a whole bunch of nonviolent protesters to march over a
   bridge and get beaten on national television so you’d realize what was
   happening, that those people are human beings. Spreading empathy,
   making that perspective visible, that’s what you need to do.

   Advertisement

   Nick Osborne can be reached at nick.osborne@globe.com.

   Related:

   • The Internationalist: Can posters and statues incite violence?

   • Martha Bayles: Putin’s propaganda highlights need for public
   diplomacy

   • Uncommon Knowledge: Nazi propaganda is still working

   • Brainiac: When war meant getting people to sign up
   Boston Globe Today
