    scorecardresearch Skip to main content

   >
   Created with Sketch. Newsletters

Watch: Globe Today

COVID

Metro


Sports


Business


Politics


Money, Power, Inequality

Climate

Spotlight

Opinion


New Hampshire


Rhode Island


World

Globe Magazine


Lifestyle


Arts


Cars

Real Estate

Events

Search

ePaper

Magazine

Obituaries

Weather

Comics

Crossword

Events

Manage my Account

Say More

Love Letters

Mr. 80 Percent

Gladiator

Last Seen

STAT: The Readout Loud

All Podcasts

Today's Headlines

Breaking News Alerts

Sports Headlines

Today in Opinion

Globe's Most Popular

Rhode Island News

New Hampshire News

Boston Globe Today

All Newsletters

   The Boston Globe The Boston Globe
   The Boston Globe The Boston Globe
   Watch: Globe TodayMoney, Power,
   InequalityMetroSportsBusinessPoliticsOpinionHealthCambervilleAround
   Mass.New HampshireRhode IslandCOVIDSpotlightLifestyleArtsGlobe
   MagazineTechnologyClimateEducationCarsReal EstateEvents
   More from Globe Opinion
   |
   Submit a Letter to the Editor
   |
   Meet the Editorial Board
   |
   Globe Op-Talks
   OPINION

A potent white supremacist tool — propaganda

New England saw a 96 percent increase in the distribution of hate speech
materials in 2022. Massachusetts led the way.

   By Renée Graham Globe Columnist,Updated March 16, 2023, 4:01 p.m.
   A Lynn man and member of the white supremacist Nationalist Social Club,
   also known as NSC-131, displayed a Nazi tattoo on his calf at a
   pro-police and Trump rally outside the State House in Boston in June
   2020. A Lynn man and member of the white supremacist Nationalist Social
   Club, also known as NSC-131, displayed a Nazi tattoo on his calf at a
   pro-police and Trump rally outside the State House in Boston in June
   2020.JOSEPH PREZIOSO/AFP via Getty Images

   At a special White House screening of “Birth of a Nation” in 1915,
   President Woodrow Wilson reportedly said about the film, “It is like
   writing history with lightning, and my only regret is that it is all so
   terribly true.”

   What Wilson saw as “so terribly true” was a Ku Klux Klan hagiography
   that demonized Black men as sexually rapacious threats to white women
   and glorified white terrorism as the epitome of American patriotism.
   The sinister reach of the film’s virulent propaganda helped revive the
   Klan and ushered in another deadly wave of anti-Black violence.

   More than a century later, racist propaganda remains a potent tool in
   promoting white supremacy. According to the Anti-Defamation League,
   there were 6,751 recorded incidents of white supremacist propaganda
   activity last year, a 38 percent increase nationwide and an all-time
   high. And except for Texas, no state saw a more dramatic surge than
   Massachusetts.
   Get The Primary Source
   Globe Opinion's weekly take on politics, delivered every Wednesday.
   Enter Email

   A neo-Nazi group draped racist and antisemitic banners from highways in
   Saugus and Danvers. Residents in Ipswich, Chatham, and Hamilton found
   fliers from a white nationalist group on their property. Someone
   scrawled racist graffiti in a restroom that threatened Quincy High
   School’s Black principal.

   Advertisement

   These are just a few of the 465 incidents that occurred in
   Massachusetts in 2022, a 72 percent increase from the previous year.
   That’s only part of the story. Including Massachusetts, there was a 96
   percent increase in recorded white supremacist propaganda activity
   across New England in 2022. Patriot Front and Nationalist Social Club,
   majority of hateful propaganda.

   Peggy Shukur, ADL New England’s interim regional director, said these
   groups “have made a concerted effort to concentrate in New England,” in
   part because of the region’s “liberal“ reputation. Texas-based Patriot
   Front, she said, “think of it as a bigger impact when they come here.
   That’s part of their drama and theatre.”

   Advertisement

   Propaganda is also used for recruitment in an attempt “to lure people
   into the movement,” Shukur said. That’s made New England’s many college
   campuses a favored target for white supremacist literature.

   “There are many examples of communities where driveways are littered
   with [plastic] bags containing really hateful information, whether it’s
   from Patriot Front, Goyim Defense League, which isn’t really big in New
   England yet, NSC-131, or any of the copycats,” Shukur said. “The fact
   that this stuff isn’t just in some random place, but in communities and
   crossing the threshold of someone’s home in that way is very troubling
   to me.”

   How white supremacist propaganda proliferates changes. For decades,
   lynching postcards that depicted the murders of Black people weren’t
   just gruesome keepsakes and souvenirs. They also served as calling
   cards promoting white supremacist violence.

   What’s unchanged is propaganda as a hate accelerant. Now it can spread
   in the darkest corners of the Web, on social media, in movies available
   Trump’s anti-immigrant rhetoric inspired mass shooters at a Pittsburgh
   synagogue in 2018 and a Walmart in El Paso, Texas, in 2019.

   Republicans continue to normalize the vilification of certain groups,
   especially trans people. Hate speech in state legislatures gets
   legitimized and replicated in propaganda. It’s not a big leap from
   anti-trans bills passed under the guise of “protecting children” to
   graffiti and fliers falsely branding drag performers as “groomers” and
   “pedophiles” intent on harming kids.

   Advertisement

   And it’s not just right-wing politicians who are responsible. ADL
   reported that at least 30 antisemitic incidents nationwide in recent
   months directly referenced hateful comments made by rapper Kanye West.
   Many of them involved graffiti, banners, and fliers distributed at
   college campuses.

   “It all feeds each other,” Shukur said. “It normalizes using these
   tropes of hate and scapegoating.”

   The startling statistics on Massachusetts and New England are a
   reminder that no part of this nation is exempt from organized hate.
   Given this state’s abolitionist history and status as the place where
   same-sex marriage was first legalized, there can be a kind of
   geographical superiority complex, as though white supremacy hasn’t
   always festered in our own backyard.

   When the next community wakes up to find racist fliers on their
   doorsteps or antisemitic graffiti in a local school, people should
   reject the idea that “this doesn’t happen here.” It is happening here.
   What remains to be seen is what leaders, law enforcement, and residents
   will do to safeguard their communities and those targeted to ensure
   that it doesn’t happen again.

   Renée Graham is a Globe columnist. She can be reached at
   renee.graham@globe.com. Follow her @reneeygraham.

Globe Opinion

   follow us
