

   News


   Finance


     News

     Markets

     Sectors

     Screeners

     Personal finance

     Videos


     Finance Plus


     Crypto

     Industries

   Sports



     Daily Fantasy

     NFL


     MLB


     NBA


     NHL


     Soccer


     College football


     Show all


   Entertainment


   Life



     Parenting


     Style and beauty


     Horoscopes

     Shopping


     Autos

   About our ads Advertising Careers

   Yahoo News

   Search query ____________________


   Mail
   Sign in

   Advertisement

   Close this content
   Salon Salon

"Propaganda": Conservative pundit goes off on Trump's "excellent" doctor note
after verbal slips

   Tatyana Tandanpolie
   November 21, 2023 at 4:48 PM·2 min read
   555
   Donald Trump Jim Vondruska/Getty Images
       Oops!
       Something went wrong.
       Please try again later.
       More content below
       Oops!
       Something went wrong.
       Please try again later.
       More content below



   Donald Trump's doctor on Monday released a glowing letter claiming that
   the former president's health is "excellent" and that he's recently
   shed a few pounds due to “an improved diet and continued daily physical
   activity," The Daily Beast reports. Dr. Bruce Aronwald, self-described
   as Trump's personal physician since 2021, said that the 77-year-old GOP
   frontrunner was "exceptional" in his cognitive exams. The doctor lists
   Sept. 13 as the day of Trump's check-up and omits specifics about his
   health, like his weight, blood pressure, cholesterol levels and current
   prescriptions.

   The unanticipated letter, which the former president shared on Truth
   Social, follows a batch of his verbal slip-ups, including his appearing
   to confuse Joe Biden with Barack Obama on multiple occasions this fall
   and mixing up the names of foreign leaders. He also misstated the name
   it with a location in another state and having the correct name
   whispered into his ear.

   Conservative commentator S.E. Cupp dismissed the letter during a CNN
   appearance, arguing that it was "no coincidence" that Trump published
   the letter on the 81st birthday of President Joe Biden, whose age and
   health have become a point of contention among both Republicans and
   Democrats. "That was propaganda. He released propaganda, right? We have
   seen no lab results,” she said, according to HuffPost. “We’ve seen
   nothing other than whatever he told this doctor to say. I also heard
   that [North Korean dictator] Kim Jong Un hit 11 holes in one. He says
   that so we should believe it right?” CNN's Jay Michaelson added that
   while Biden is "a little bit old," Trump is "a lying liar," and host
   Abby Phillips noted that the two 2024 presidential candidates are "not
   that far apart in age."

   Recommended Stories

Week 15 Fantasy Football Rankings: Quarterbacks

       Check out our fantasy football quarterback rankings for Week 15 of
       the 2023 NFL season!
       10h ago

Meta is going to fact-check content on the Threads app

       Threads is going to make an effort to moderate more of the
       user-generated content on the platform.
       7h ago

The 15 best books of 2023 to gift to friends and family this holiday season

       From baking to Britney, horror to Harry, these are my selections
       for the best titles to leave loved ones under the tree.
       11h ago

Top 25 MLB free agents 2023-24: With Shohei Ohtani off the board, who's still

       Who are the top players available this winter, and what will it
       take to get them? Here's our rundown of the 2023-24 free-agent
       class.
       8h ago

Get smart: Score an Oprah-approved Echo Show 15 on rare sale — it's nearly
30% off

       Stay on-task and entertained with this Alexa hub, loved by the
       'Queen of All Media' herself: 'It almost looks like a piece of
       art,' she said.
       9h ago

Fact or Fluke: Follow these fantasy playoff tips to avoid your biases messing
up your lineup decisions

       Renee Miller presents different suggestions for fantasy managers to
       adhere to during the most important weeks of the season.
       14h ago

Bulls to induct Michael Jordan, Scottie Pippen, others in first-ever Ring of
Honor

       The Bulls are inducting 13 people and the entire 1995-96 team into
       their Ring of Honor next month.
       9h ago

Best gifts for under $100 that you can buy on Amazon in 2023

       Looking to pick up some Christmas gifts on a budget? This list has
       some great ideas for tool lovers, tech lovers, car lovers and kids,
       all under $100!
       10h ago

Junkyard Gem: 1996 Honda Odyssey

       A 1996 Honda Odyssey minivan with more than 300,000 miles on the
       yard.
       9h ago

I tried the Egofit under-desk treadmill — it's a great way to walk to work

       This compact machine can help you add a lot more steps to your
       workday.
       11h ago

Natural gas prices plummet amid high US production, warmer weather

       Natural gas prices are under pressure amid milder-than-expected
       weather and record production in the US.
       11h ago

The Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses are getting AI-powered visual search features

       The Ray-Ban Meta smart glasses are about to get some powerful
       upgrades thanks to improvements to the social network’s AI
       assistant.
       11h ago

Police are using pharmacies to secretly access medical information about
members of the public

       A Congressional letter called on the Department of Health and Human
       Services to revise HIPAA so that these warrantless searches
       couldn't occur.
       14h ago

Bitcoin ATM company Coin Cloud got hacked. Even its new owners don't know
how.

       In November, the cybersecurity collective vx-underground wrote on
       X, formerly Twitter, that unknown hackers were claiming to have
       breached Coin Cloud, a bankrupt Bitcoin ATM company. According to
       vx-underground, the hackers claimed to have stolen 70,000 pictures
       the personal data of 300,000 customers, which is alleged to
       include, “Social Security Numbers, date of birth, First Name, Last
       Name, e-mail address, Telephone Number, Current Occupation,
       Physical Address, and more.” A month on, what really happened to
       Coin Cloud remains a mystery, even according to the company's new
       15h ago

Housing costs still 'largest factor' in monthly inflation uptick

       Shelter costs were the "largest factor in the monthly increase in
       the index for all items less food and energy," according to the CPI
       report.
       13h ago

Buy the best sink strainer for only $10 on Amazon — it's the perfect
practical stocking stuffer

       Not only does it spare my hands from having to brave the depths of
       my drain, it also helps prevent costly clogs.
       14h ago

Trending gift ideas for 2023: What everyone else is Googling

       Google released its Holiday 100 list, a compilation of the
       top-searched products of 2023.
       14h ago

Chargers' Justin Herbert to undergo season-ending surgery on fractured finger

       The Chargers quarterback suffered the injury during Sunday's loss
       to the Denver Broncos.
       15h ago

Is it safe to take Tylenol during pregnancy? What experts say amid lawsuits
claiming a link to autism and ADHD.

       Acetaminophen has long been considered safe to help reduce fever
       and relieve pain while pregnant. Here's what experts say about new
       claims.
       15h ago

Instagram finstas may turn into a new product called 'flipside,' meant only
for close friends

       Instagram is considering a new feature called "flipside" that
       allows users to establish a new, private side to their profile
       where they can post more candid and personal photos for a subset of
       their friends. The feature essentially productizes "finstas" -- the
       slang term for alternate Instagram accounts where people post their
       real-life photos, as opposed to the more polished photos they post
       it easier to share photos and videos with a private group of
       friends, without having to establish an entirely separate account
       -- or, perhaps, one existing outside the bounds of Instagram's
       parental controls.
       16h ago

   Yahoo news


   Follow us on

   Download our app
   Download app from appStore Download app from googlePlay

   aganda-conservative-pundit-goes-off-154838863.html&c14=-1]
