   #VOA - Top Stories [RSS]


   analytics

Accessibility links


   please wait

Print Options:



   Link has been copied to clipboard

       U.S. News All About America Silicon Valley & Technology Immigration
       Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central
       Asia

Follow Us

   Languages
   site logo site logo
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next

   Press Freedom

Kremlin Propaganda on Uptick in Latin America

   December 08, 2023 1:44 PM

   A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.
   A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

   Share


   Kremlin Propaganda on Uptick in Latin America

   share

   WASHINGTON —

   Javier Vrox, the host of a political program on a YouTube channel in
   Chile who constantly monitors social networks in his country, recently
   noticed an uptick in pro-Russian political messaging, which had already
   been common in the country.

   "They copy and paste the same messages on social media — that
   funny president; they copy those videos of Zelensky's past TV series,
   making the point that he is an actor and a liar."

   According to Vrox, such reports aim to convince Chileans that
   Ukrainians only pretend to be victims of Russian aggression but are
   themselves a regional threat, and that NATO and the United States, by
   that logic, are its partners and equally hostile to Chile while Russia
   is a reliable ally.

   "I think they're doing a great job of tagging influencers, people from
   Twitter, now X, to share video messages and posts ... to create the
   idea that if you're a friend of the U.S., you're an enemy to Chile,"
   said Vrox, who added that some posts referred to Ukrainian leaders as
   “Nazis,” even though Zelenskyy himself is Jewish.

   These sentiments are not shared by Chilean President Gabriel Boric, who
   has publicly condemned Russian President Vladimir Putin for invading
   Ukraine and met with Zelenskyy in September 2023 during the U.N.
   General Assembly in New York to discuss a possible Ukraine-Latin
   America summit.

   "Chileans don't really support Ukraine; they think that Ukrainians are
   trying to manipulate the media to look like victims," said Vrox. But
   “Boric supports Zelenskyy's government, so a weird situation has
   developed."

   Well-funded network

   James Rubin, the U.S. State Department’s Global Engagement Center
   special envoy and coordinator, agreed in an interview with VOA last
   month that Russia is “covertly co-opting local media and influencers to
   spread disinformation and propaganda” in Latin America.
   A screenshot of RT en Español, Russia Today's Spanish website, on Nov.
   17, 2023. A screenshot of RT en Español, Russia Today's Spanish
   website, on Nov. 17, 2023.
   SEE ALSO:

US Seeks to Preempt Russian Influence Operation Targeting Latin America

   In a public statement issued on November 7, the State Department said
   Russia "is currently financing an ongoing, well-funded disinformation
   campaign across Latin America," spanning at least 13 countries, from
   Argentina and Chile in the south all the way to Mexico in the north.

   "A cultivated group of editorial staff would be organized in a Latin
   American country, most likely in Chile, with several local individuals
   and representatives — journalists and public opinion leaders — of
   various countries in the region," the statement said.

   "A team in Russia would then create content and send the material to
   the editorial staff in Latin America for review, editing, and
   ultimately publication in local mass media."

   Christopher Hernandez-Roy of the Washington-based Center for Strategic
   and International Studies, or CSIS, said Russia has a “legacy of
   propaganda” in the region going back to the Cold War.

   Hernandez-Roy is a CSIS Americas Program deputy director and senior
   fellow.

   The Soviets, he said, were "supporting revolutionary movements
   throughout the region, including military support in the case of Cuba,
   Nicaragua and other places, Central America in general, in the 70s and
   80s."

   The annexation of Crimea in 2014, he said, became the starting point of
   a new wave of disinformation in the region.

   "It's around then that you start to see maybe an uptick in Russia's
   influence or trying to influence narratives in the Western Hemisphere,"
   he told VOA. "In those three years — 2014, 2015 and 2016 — you start to
   see, for instance, 'Russia Today' coming online in Chile and Mexico,
   and I think in Argentina, as well."
   A screen shot of the Sputnik Mundo website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.
   A screen shot of the Sputnik Mundo website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

   According to an October report by the United States Institute of Peace,
   Actualidad RT (Russia Today in Spanish) and Sputnik Mundo are the key
   purveyors of Russian state media in the region. Hernandez-Roy said
   these two media organizations have about 32 million regular listeners
   in Latin America, which has 667 million inhabitants.

   "So, [even] 30 million is quite significant, and those are [merely] the
   than just simply its visible media outlets, [such as] using social
   media, sympathetic journalists, sympathetic influencers and Russian
   automated bots on social media. It can amplify its messages, which then
   are picked up by other sympathetic mechanisms."

   "We know [Actualidad RT] have offices in Havana, Buenos Aires and
   Caracas," said Armando Daniel Armas, a Venezuelan opposition politician
   currently living in Europe. "We know that [Actualidad RT] have over 200
   Spanish-speaking, let's say, journalists working in Moscow … who
   allocate resources to find professional people, good people with
   content" to perpetuate Russian narratives on the ground in Latin
   American.

   The object, according to U.S. officials, is to have Russian public
   relations and internet companies recruit and cultivate Latin American
   journalists, influencers and public opinion leaders to seed their
   publications and broadcasts with content favorable to Moscow while
   hiding any links to the Kremlin.

   “They've been somewhat successful in using RT and Sputnik in Latin
   America,” Rubin told VOA in November. “The difference here is they're
   trying to operate surreptitiously. They're trying to create content in
   Russia and launder it through Latin American journalists. They are
   covertly co-opting local media and influencers to spread disinformation
   and propaganda.”
   James Rubin, the U.S. State Department’s Global Engagement Center
   special envoy and coordinator, said that Russia is "covertly co-opting
   local media and influencers to spread disinformation and propaganda.”
   James Rubin, the U.S. State Department’s Global Engagement Center
   special envoy and coordinator, said that Russia is "covertly co-opting
   local media and influencers to spread disinformation and propaganda.”

   U.S. officials said it is unclear how many of the journalists and
   although a senior State Department official told VOA, “There are
   definitely some willing participants.”

   Others involved in the network may be sympathetic to the Russian
   viewpoints but unaware that the directions are coming from Moscow.

   Russia's ultimate objective, said Hernandez-Roy, is to convince people
   in Latin America that Moscow is not the only one to blame — that
   there's blame on both sides in a war caused by the U.S. and NATO.

   "Essentially, what they're trying to do is to make sure that the region
   is neutral,” said Hernandez-Roy. “We're not talking about Cuba,
   Nicaragua and Venezuela, which, of course, are completely on the
   Russian side."

   Soft diplomacy

   Yuriy Polyukhovych, Ukraine's ambassador to Colombia, Ecuador and Peru,
   points to another asset utilized to influence opinions in Latin
   American that Moscow has used since Soviet times: its diplomatic corps.

   "Russian ambassadors, Russian embassies here are a part of Russia's
   propaganda machine,” he told VOA. “They've been doing their work for
   many years. These are not embassies of four or five persons. These
   embassies have 60, 70, 80 people each. Imagine what can be done with
   such a group of people! According to our information, some work for the
   intelligence service."

   At the same time, said Ukrainian Ambassador to Argentina Yuriy
   Klymenko, the Russian war against Ukraine at least somewhat undermined
   Russia's standing in Latin America, presenting a diplomatic opportunity
   for the United States and its allies.

   "From my experience, it is now considered bad manners to invite
   representatives of Russia to diplomatic or other public events," he
   told VOA.

   Yuriy Polyukhovych once called Latin America a region of "contact
   diplomacy," emphasizing the need to work directly with local
   populations to counteract Russian influence. Hernandez-Roy suggested
   the U.S. project more soft power in the region.

   "The U.S. used to project much more soft power decades ago than today,”
   he said. “Soft power means people-to-people exchanges, more high-level
   visits, cultural interchanges."

   Kyiv, he said, should allocate more resources to the region and conduct
   active diplomacy with high-level visits and ambassadors to counter
   Russian narratives.

   This story originated in VOA's Ukrainian Service. VOA National Security
   Correspondent Jeff Seldin contributed reporting.

Related

       Biden to Rally Support for Ukraine at UN Amid Global South Concerns

Biden to Rally Support for Ukraine at UN Amid Global South Concerns
       Influencers Grow in Power  As Free Press Withers in El Salvador,
       Pro-Government Social Media Influencers Grow in Power

As Free Press Withers in El Salvador, Pro-Government Social Media Influencers
Grow in Power
       That Was Supposed To Be a Love-in High Anxiety Over Ukraine War
       Sets in at EU-Latin America Summit That Was Supposed To Be a
       Love-in

High Anxiety Over Ukraine War Sets in at EU-Latin America Summit That Was
Supposed To Be a Love-in

Latest Press Freedom Stories

       mother after the verdict in a Ferghana criminal court, Uzbekistan,
       Dec. 1, 2023. Uzbek blogger Olimjon Haydarov, right, puts his arm
       around his mother after the verdict in a Ferghana criminal court,
       Uzbekistan, Dec. 1, 2023.

Criticized Over Blogger Arrests, Uzbekistan Denies It's a Free Speech Issue
       Conflict  Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in
       Israel-Hamas Conflict

Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in Israel-Hamas Conflict
       A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

Kremlin Propaganda on Uptick in Latin America
       in Washington, D.C., Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA) FILE - The U.S. Agency
       for Global Media logo at Voice of America, in Washington, D.C.,
       Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA)

Senate Approves USAGM Board
       interview with Reuters at the Presidential Office in Seoul, South
       Korea, April 18, 2023. FILE - South Korean President Yoon Suk Yeol
       speaks during an interview with Reuters at the Presidential Office
       in Seoul, South Korea, April 18, 2023.

Under Yoon, South Korea Defamation Cases Against Media Rise

Special Reports

       Mexico. Comic book panels of a photojournalist taking a photo.
       Illustrated poster image for VOA press freedom story on Tijuana,
       Mexico. Comic book panels of a photojournalist taking a photo.

Risk and Reward - Covering Violence in Tijuana, Mexico

The Afghan Journalists Who Stayed
       Mechanism - For Mexican Media, Crime Beat Can Be a Killer

The Mechanism - Covering Crime in Mexico's Most Dangerous States

Recommended


52 Documentary

   Back to top


   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
