    scorecardresearch Skip to main content

   >
   Created with Sketch. Newsletters

Watch: Globe Today

COVID

Metro


Sports


Business


Politics


Money, Power, Inequality

Climate

Spotlight

Opinion


New Hampshire


Rhode Island


World

Globe Magazine


Lifestyle


Arts


Cars

Real Estate

Events

Search

ePaper

Magazine

Obituaries

Weather

Comics

Crossword

Events

Manage my Account

Say More

Love Letters

Mr. 80 Percent

Gladiator

Last Seen

STAT: The Readout Loud

All Podcasts

Today's Headlines

Breaking News Alerts

Sports Headlines

Today in Opinion

Globe's Most Popular

Rhode Island News

New Hampshire News

Boston Globe Today

All Newsletters

   The Boston Globe The Boston Globe
   The Boston Globe The Boston Globe
   Watch: Globe TodayMoney, Power,
   InequalityMetroSportsBusinessPoliticsOpinionHealthCambervilleAround
   Mass.New HampshireRhode IslandCOVIDSpotlightLifestyleArtsGlobe
   MagazineTechnologyClimateEducationCarsReal EstateEvents

She puts ‘kidnapped’ fliers up again and again, knowing they’ll be torn down

‘Every page is a person,’ says Arlington resident Shirly Gurten. But some see
the hostage posters as propaganda.

   By Brooke Hauser Globe Staff,Updated November 17, 2023, 5:13 p.m.
   Shirly Gurten, a 29-year-old Israeli audio designer, has been posting
   "kidnapped" fliers on Massachusetts Avenue in Arlington as well as on
   Boston Common. Protesters have been ripping them down. Shirly Gurten, a
   29-year-old Israeli audio designer, has been posting "kidnapped" fliers
   Protesters have been ripping them down.Suzanne Kreiter/Globe Staff

   When Shirly Gurten leaves her house in Arlington these days, it’s often
   with a backpack filled with posters and packing tape. The posters are
   killing around 1,200 people, mostly civilians, and abducting nearly
   240.

   The packing tape is for attaching the posters to utility poles near the
   Capitol Theatre on Massachusetts Avenue. Since protesters began ripping
   them down, Gurten has started putting the fliers in protective plastic
   sleeves and wrapping everything in more tape.

   She doesn’t see herself as an activist.

   “I’m an Israeli,” said Gurten, who was born and raised in Jerusalem.
   “We only know how to be proactive.”

   Advertisement

   Gurten is among those who have been posting the fliers in cities around
   the world, from Cape Town to Cambridge, Kyiv to Mexico City. With their
   bright-red “KIDNAPPED” banner, the posters have emerged as a tangible,
   ubiquitous symbol of the Middle East conflict. But as Israel rejects
   global calls for a cease-fire and the reported death toll of
   Palestinians climbs past 11,000, including more than 4,500 children,
   they’ve also become flash points of the culture wars erupting on city
   streets and cellphone screens.
   Get Nightmare in Mission Hill
   A limited-series newsletter about the untold story of the Charles and
   Carol Stuart case.
   Enter Email
   The remains of torn "kidnapped" hostage fliers were seen on Boston
   Common in early November. The remains of torn "kidnapped" hostage
   fliers were seen on Boston Common in early November.Erin Clark/Globe
   Staff

   Gurten, a 29-year-old audio designer who came to Boston in 2017 to
   study at Berklee College of Music, learned about the downloadable
   “kidnapped” posters last month through the area’s Israeli community.
   Initially, she planned to print out a few fliers, but then she opened
   the digital file and saw it contained around 200 pages. “Because every
   page is a person,” she said. So, she printed all of them.

   She’s been putting the posters up — and making sure they stay up — with
   the support of some in the local Jewish community. Richard Fraiman, who
   torn off utility poles near his cinema. “I said, ‘Well, give us a pile
   recalled Fraiman, who said his wife’s cousin was among those killed on
   Oct. 7, in Kibbutz Be’eri. “So we put them up, and sure enough they
   were ripped down again.”

   Advertisement

   In October, "kidnapped" fliers, seen here on a bench, were spread
   around the MIT campus in Cambridge. In October, "kidnapped" fliers,
   seen here on a bench, were spread around the MIT campus in
   Cambridge.David L. Ryan/Globe Staff

   Fraiman’s question is “why?”

   “Why would somebody be so threatened, and be offended, to see a real
   person’s picture there?” he asked. “Why does it set them off?”

   Sut Jhally, a professor emeritus of communication at the University of
   Massachusetts Amherst, said that while he wouldn’t tear down the
   posters himself, he finds them problematic. “I think what makes people
   want to rip them down,” he said, “is their sense of injustice and their
   sense of rage — why are we caring about these people and not the people
   that, in fact, America is directly responsible for killing, which is
   Palestinians? It is American aid, it is American weapons, literally,
   that is killing Palestinians. Why do we not care about the people that
   we kill? The people that are our victims?”

   Torn "kidnapped" posters were seen on Boston Common in early November.
   Torn "kidnapped" posters were seen on Boston Common in early November.
   Erin Clark/Globe Staff

   The battle over the posters is unfolding across Boston, from the Common
   as tensions flare and antisemitic and Islamophobic incidents surge in
   the United States.

   Created by Israeli designer Tal Huber, the posters were conceived by
   street artists Nitzan Mintz and Dede Bandaid, who relocated from Tel
   Aviv to New York City in September. Like Gurten, their lives have been
   consumed by the #KidnappedFromIsrael campaign since they started it.

   Advertisement

   Nitzan Mintz and Dede Bandaid, the Israeli artists behind the
   “kidnapped” posters, taped them up in the stairwell of a subway station
   in the Bushwick neighborhood of Brooklyn on Oct. 14. Nitzan Mintz and
   Dede Bandaid, the Israeli artists behind the “kidnapped” posters, taped
   them up in the stairwell of a subway station in the Bushwick
   neighborhood of Brooklyn on Oct. 14. ANNA WATTS/NYT

   The fliers, now translated into more than 30 languages, feature the
   names and faces of the missing, whose ages range from around 10 months
   to 85 years. Many of the photos and details have come directly from
   families of the hostages who want their loved ones to be part of the
   campaign, Mintz said by phone.

   Those taping up the posters say they want to honor and remember the
   hostages. Those tearing them down or defacing them have called the
   hostages “colonizers” and the campaign “false propaganda.” Many have
   been caught on camera mid-act, their faces broadcast over social media;
   some accused of ripping down fliers have been fired from their jobs as
   a result.
   Women took part in the "Empty strollers in the Capitol" initiative
   promoted by the Jewish Community of Rome to remember the children
   kidnapped by Hamas on Oct. 7, at Rome Capitoline Hill, on Nov. 7.
   Fliers, in Italian, read "kidnapped." Women took part in the "Empty
   strollers in the Capitol" initiative promoted by the Jewish Community
   Capitoline Hill, on Nov. 7. Fliers, in Italian, read "kidnapped."Mauro
   Scrobogna/Associated Press

   Lost in the ideological clash is the notion that the posters are a form
   art.”

   “It’s, to me, the definition of street art — it’s getting your message

   Others see the fliers as a form of propaganda. “I think the posters are
   indicative, actually, of what’s going on in American media,” said
   Jhally, who’s the founder and executive director of the Media Education
   Foundation.

   Advertisement

   “There are some people who are considered to be ‘worthy’ victims; that
   is, victims worth of our sympathy and our attention,” Jhally said,
   referencing Noam Chomsky. “And there are other people who are
   considered to be ‘unworthy’ victims . . . we don’t care about them, we
   don’t even want to think about them.”
   People put up fliers and signs with the names and faces of people
   kidnapped, during a protest against the Netanyahu government, calling
   for his resignation and to bring home the hostages, outside The Kirya
   the names and faces of people kidnapped, during a protest against the
   Netanyahu government, calling for his resignation and to bring home the
   hostages, outside The Kirya (HaKirya) on Oct. 14 in Tel Aviv. Alexi J.
   Rosenfeld/Getty

   Mintz and Bandaid came to New York for an artist residency program, but
   they never started. On Oct. 7, she received a phone call from her
   mother in Israel who said the country was under attack.

   When they heard about the hostages, “We couldn’t hold ourselves from
   screaming. We decided that we have to do something.”

   And that something had to be immediate.

   A 24-hour brainstorming session yielded the idea of putting the
   hostages’ names and faces on milk cartons. But production would take
   too long, so they simplified the concept. “After 9/11, people were
   still looking for loved ones and the entire city of New York was
   covered with ‘missing people,’” said Mintz. They modeled the design on
   that format.

   Strangers Mintz and Bandaid approached didn’t want to help put up the
   posters, so they went out alone. One night they uploaded the posters to
   Dropbox and shared it through their social media; the next day, people
   were posting them around Manhattan.

   “This has gone to the streets very quickly, all over the place,”
   Gastman said, noting that the fliers are also “being accepted in a lot

   Advertisement

   Earlier this month, nearly 240 Holocaust survivors gathered in
   Manhattan to show solidarity with the hostages; they each held a
   “kidnapped” poster.
   Gillian Laub photographed Holocaust survivors Noemi Kohn and Yaffa
   Eisne, each holding a poster of an Israeli hostage being held by Hamas,
   for a visual project calling for the release of hostages in New York.
   Called "Image of Hope for the Hostages," the project gathered 240
   Holocaust survivors at New York's Museum of Jewish Heritage. Gillian
   Laub photographed Holocaust survivors Noemi Kohn and Yaffa Eisne, each
   holding a poster of an Israeli hostage being held by Hamas, for a
   visual project calling for the release of hostages in New York. Called
   "Image of Hope for the Hostages," the project gathered 240 Holocaust
   survivors at New York's Museum of Jewish Heritage.Bebeto
   Matthews/Associated Press

   Now, Mintz wakes up “glued to the phone.” Watching the news, “I feel
   terrible. Terrible and terrified about what’s going on in Gaza, to the
   people,” she said. In Israel, Huber spends hours talking to families of
   the hostages. They update their website, www.kidnappedfromisrael.com,
   as new information comes in. “If we discover someone was slaughtered
   instead of being kidnapped,” Mintz said, “we need to remove them.”

   Gurten, whose younger brother currently serves in the Israel Defense
   Forces, also monitors the news. “Everyone feels so helpless about the
   situation,” she said. “My brother is fighting in battles; the least I
   can do is put some posters here.”

   “Everybody knows somebody,” said Fraiman, whose eldest daughter lives
   in Israel. “One of my granddaughter’s classmate’s families was
   slaughtered.”
   A defaced "kidnapped" poster was seen on a bus shelter on Nov. 3, in
   London. A defaced "kidnapped" poster was seen on a bus shelter on Nov.
   3, in London. Leon Neal/Getty

   Gurten said she has seen videos of people tearing down posters in
   Arlington, Boston, New York City, and Miami. On Massachusetts Avenue,
   she said, some people use their car keys to scratch off the protective
   tape.

   She and other volunteers in the area are now thinking about applying
   Vaseline or baby oil to create another layer of protection.

   “Every week when I go to synagogue, people tell me, ‘I’ve seen the
   posters, and it’s made me feel stronger. I’m glad that we keep putting
   them out there,’” Gurten said.

   “I do see this as part of my duty,” she said, “to tell the world what
   happened.”

   Brooke Hauser can be reached at brooke.hauser@globe.com. Follow her
   @brookehauser.
