

   News


   Finance


     News

     Markets

     Sectors

     Screeners

     Personal finance

     Videos


     Finance Plus


     Crypto

     Industries

   Sports



     Daily Fantasy

     NFL


     MLB


     NBA


     NHL


     Soccer


     College football


     Show all


   Entertainment


   Life



     Parenting


     Style and beauty


     Horoscopes

     Shopping


     Autos

   About our ads Advertising Careers

   Yahoo News

   Search query ____________________


   Mail
   Sign in

   Advertisement

   Close this content
   Rolling Stone Rolling Stone

Things Are So Bad for DeSantis That His Top Propaganda Blog Is Shutting Down

   Nikki McCann Ramirez
   December 4, 2023 at 10:14 PM·3 min read
   561
       Oops!
       Something went wrong.
       Please try again later.
       More content below



   The Florida Standard has gone belly up. The death of a low-circulation
   right-wing rag would normally be fairly unremarkable, except that this
   particular publication is a favorite propaganda outfit of Florida
   governor and presidential candidate Ron DeSantis.

   According to a report from The Floridian, the Standard, which has for
   months now operated on extremely friendly, very accessible terms with
   the DeSantis campaign, has fired all of its staff and will cease
   stated that Desantis had been instrumental in propping up the flailing
   with the website’s management — even encouraging donors, lobbyists, and
   communications firms to contribute financially to publication.

   Aside from Fox News, The Standard was one of the only outlets to which
   DeSantis regularly granted interviews. A Politico review of the site’s
   content, conducted for an interview with The Standard’s Editor in Chief
   Will Witt, found that many of its articles read like press releases
   from the campaign’s PR office. It’s no surprise given that according to
   The Floridian’s investigation, DeSantis’ Rapid Response Director
   Christina Pushaw has spoken to multiple people about her contacts at
   The Standard. The site has operated as the central hub in a web of
   friendly outlets to which DeSantis’ team can feed scoops in exchange
   for positive press.

   The death of The Standard comes at a time when the DeSantis campaign
   seems to be falling apart at the seams. On Friday, DeSantis’ primary
   super PAC “Never Back Down,” fired three members of its senior
   management, including interim CEO Kristin Davison (who had only been in
   the job for nine days), Communications Director Erin Perrine, and
   Director of Operations Matthew Palmisano. The news came just a few
   weeks after reports emerged that two members of the PAC’s board had
   almost come to blows during a strategy meeting about how the campaign
   should handle the rise of fellow Republican presidential candidate
   Nikki Haley.

   For months now, concerns had been brewing within the Desantis camp that
   Never Back Down was running an ineffective strategy on behalf of their
   candidate, but the bigger, more glaring problem is DeSantis himself.

   On Thursday DeSantis was blown out of his suspiciously high heels by
   California Governor Gavin Newsom during a televised debate on Fox News.
   Much like his onstage appearances during the Republican primary
   debates, DeSantis seemed deeply uncomfortable in his own skin, and
   whatever bombshell he planned to drop against Newsom in the much-hyped
   “Red State vs. Blue State” showdown was wiped away when the California
   governor pointed out that DeSantis was down 41 points against Trump in
   his own home state.

   And it isn’t just Florida — DeSantis’ polls are floundering across the
   nation. As various single-digit candidates drop out of the Republican
   primaries, Donald Trump seems to only expand his lead against the
   field, and the odds that DeSantis manages to engineer a 180 for his
   candidacy are growing slimmer by the day.

   More from Rolling Stone
       ¯\_(ツ)_/¯
       Obamacare'

   Best of Rolling Stone
       Presidential Campaign


   Recommended Stories

Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis latest politician to slam CFP after Seminoles were
left out, wants $1 million for lawsuit

       It’s unclear what Ron DeSantis thinks that hypothetical lawsuit
       would accomplish.
       7d ago

'The Voice' sends home fan-favorite singer a week before the finale and
viewers are shocked

       'The Voice" pares down to five finalists and one elimination was
       especially shocking.
       55m ago

Metafuels lands $8 million bet on greener skies ahead

       Metafuels sets out to change the landscape of sustainable jet fuel,
       and has just picked up an $8 million suitcase from baggage carousel
       3 at its local ZRH. Sure, it sounds a little like a French press or
       maybe a boomerang, but the company has a couple of tricks up its
       sleeve, creating sustainable aviation fuel made using renewable
       electricity -- eSAF, among friends. The company is focusing on jet
       fuel as its primary output, buying a ticket to make jet fuel
       conforming to aviation standards.
       55m ago

Procurement software startup Pivot raises $21.6 million just a few months
after its creation

       French startup Pivot is an interesting startup story as it is
       scaling at a rapid pace even though startup investments are down in
       Europe. In September, Pivot started selling its software solution
       to its first clients. Instead of relying on lengthy integration
       processes, Pivot integrates with your existing financial stack as
       much as possible as well as your ERP.
       56m ago

Patriots have reportedly already decided to move on from Bill Belichick in
2024

       This season, like most after Tom Brady left New England, has been
       rough for the Patriots.
       3h ago

Ekeler's Edge: Year of the backup QB? Ekeler reacts to Herbert's injury

       There's no way around it: Losing Justin Herbert for the season
       stinks for fantasy, reality and everything in between. On a
       emotionally loaded episode of 'Ekeler's Edge' the L.A. RB opens up
       to Matt Harmon about what Herbert means to him as teammate and a
       franchise QB after he sustained a season ending injury in Week 14.
       Ekeler and Harmon also discuss if this year has become 'the year of
       the backup QB' in the NFL given all the injuries at the position.
       3h ago

LSU sets multiple program records in 133-44 win over McNeese State, holds
Cowgirls scoreless in 2nd quarter

       The Tigers have looked largely dominant in a nine-game win streak
       since a season-opening upset to Colorado.
       3h ago

Get smart: Score an Oprah-approved Echo Show 15 on rare sale — it's nearly
30% off

       Stay on-task and entertained with this Alexa hub, loved by the
       'Queen of All Media' herself: 'It almost looks like a piece of
       art,' she said.
       9h ago

Giants reportedly sign outfielder Jung Hoo Lee to a 6-year, $113 million deal

       After being spurned by multiple big-name free agents, the Giants
       finally caught their white whale.
       8h ago

BlackRock is taking heat on the 2024 campaign trail. Nikki Haley's surge is
making it worse.

       The world's biggest money manager is becoming a favorite punching
       bag on the 2024 campaign trail.
       15h ago

Fed is expected to hold rates steady Wednesday. Wall Street will be listening
for any hints of cuts.

       The Fed is expected to hold rates steady this week. Wall Street
       will be watching for any signs that the most aggressive rate-hiking
       campaign since the 1980s is now over.
       9h ago

The newest Echo Show 5 is like a 'Jetsons-style assistant' — and it's down to
$40, a record-low

       'I'm convinced it's secretly an alien from a more advanced,
       hilariously efficient planet,' said one of 10,000 five-star fans —
       save 55%.
       9h ago

Give the gift of nostalgia with the vintage record player loved by 48,000+
fans — it's down to $48

       Wrap it up with a copy of 'Stairway to Heaven' and your friends and
       family will rock out old-school (and love you forever).
       9h ago

Steelers' Mike Tomlin adjusts stance on WR George Pickens' emotions: 'It's a
problem'

       Tomlin called Pickens' frustrations a "non-issue" last month.
       9h ago

Junkyard Gem: 1996 Honda Odyssey

       A 1996 Honda Odyssey minivan with more than 300,000 miles on the
       yard.
       9h ago

NBA's in-season tournament championship game set ratings mark not seen in
nearly 6 years

       The Lakers' in-season tournament championship win Saturday was the
       most-watched non-Christmas regular-season game on any network since
       2018.
       9h ago

'Big Bang Theory' actress Kate Micucci, 43, developed lung cancer despite
never smoking. Here's what to know.

       The "Don't Think Twice" star had surgery to remove lung cancer,
       despite never having smoked.
       10h ago

There’s only one type of inflation left

       Inflation in most categories is back to normal ranges, with one
       exception: rent.
       12h ago

Netflix’s first engagement report reveals its most popular shows and movies

       Netflix published the first of a new twice-a-year engagement report
       called What We Watched. The first installment, launched Tuesday as
       a Microsoft Excel file, lists the hours viewed for every title,
       10h ago

Browns LT Jedrick Wills Jr. lost for season after undergoing knee surgery

       Jedrick Wills Jr. has not played since Nov. 5 due to an MCL injury
       in his right knee.
       10h ago

   Yahoo news


   Follow us on

   Download our app
   Download app from appStore Download app from googlePlay

   gs-bad-desantis-top-propaganda-211441835.html&c14=-1]
