<lang="en">
<page="en-1">
<text>



disinformation and Hate Speech on Social Media Contribute to Inciting War
Crimes Against Gaza

   Oct 13, 2023 Tamara Kharroub
--
   emotions. As the fog of war and polarization make it difficult to
   verify information and find credible or reliable sources, social media
   platforms become vital information spaces. But those platforms also
   become part of the information warfare where disinformation and fake
   content are rampant, hate speech and incitement spread, and extreme and
   graphic content gets amplified by the algorithms of social media
   platforms and garner the most engagement and attention. Social media
   users share unverified, misleading, or miscaptioned content, spread
   doctored images and altered documents, and amplify baseless claims. In
   the coverage of the recent Hamas attack on Israel and the latter’s
   criminal bombardment of Gaza, the amount of disinformation, false
   content, and violent hate speech on social media platforms has reached
   unprecedented levels. This type of content incites further violence,
   manufactures support for war crimes, and impacts real world policy
--
   Israeli-Palestinian conflict, and social media content is fanning the
   flames of further violence.

Unprecedented Scale and Speed of disinformation

   There is a flood of misinformation and falsehoods circulating on social
   media, claiming to show the recent events in Israel and Palestine,
   including mischaracterized content, misleading captions, false images,
   disinformation, especially on X (formerly Twitter), has never been seen
   before and is spreading at accelerated speed due to its graphic and
   emotional nature, which in turn widens its reach. According to some
   analysts, 20 percent of the accounts participating in these
--
   especially after waves of layoffs at many tech companies like X and
   Meta, which impacted content and safety teams.

   While disinformation spreads on all social media sites, X is the most
   impactful as it has been the primary platform for political content,
   where users go first to find information on breaking news and
   developing events. However, after being acquired by Elon Musk, X has
   become the platform with the largest amount of disinformation and hate
   speech. Musk, who reposts far-right antisemitic accounts and verifiably
   false content, has eliminated teams that deal with disinformation and
   human rights and safety at the company, and instituted platform changes
   that made it easier for false information to spread. For example, the
   introduction of the $8 per month premium subscription in exchange for
--
   external links, reportedly for aesthetic reasons, could be further
   exacerbating the problem as articles are only represented by images
   without context. Musk’s efforts since taking over Twitter (now X) have
   essentially removed any existing guardrails on disinformation and hate
   speech, made it more difficult for researchers to study content and
   patterns on the platform, and made this information environment more
   susceptible to exploitation by malicious actors.
--

Hate Speech and the Silencing of Palestinian Narratives

   In addition to disinformation, hateful and violent content and cyber
   harassment have been rampant on social media platforms. Some
   including antisemitism, islamophobia, and anti-Palestinian racism,
   especially on X. There are concerns about the rise in antisemitic
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-10">
<text>
   HampshireRhode IslandCOVIDSpotlightLifestyleArtsGlobe
   MagazineTechnologyClimateEducationCarsReal EstateEvents

Combating disinformation wanes at social media giants

   By Steven Lee Myers and Nico Grant New York Times,Updated February 14,
   2023, 4:47 p.m.
--

   The cuts reflect a trend across the industry that threatens to undo
   many of the safeguards that social media platforms put in place in
   recent years to ban or tamp down on disinformation — like false claims
   about the COVID-19 pandemic, the Russian war in Ukraine, or the
   integrity of elections around the world. Twitter, under its new owner,
   Elon Musk, has slashed its staff, while Meta, which owns Facebook,
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-100">
<text>
    #The Nation » Feed The Nation » Comments Feed The Nation » Israel’s
   Ludicrous propaganda Wins Over the Only Audience That Counts Comments
   Feed alternate alternate


--
   Print subscriber? Activate your online access

   Skip to content Skip to footer
   Israel’s Ludicrous propaganda Wins Over the Only Audience That Counts



--

   World / November 17, 2023

Israel’s Ludicrous propaganda Wins Over the Only Audience That Counts

   Why make an effort to be credible if you’re going to be uncritically
   echoed by the White House and Western press?
--
   Foreign Affairs. But of course, downloaded versions continue to
   circulate.

   Lying and propaganda are endemic to warfare. Public opinion is always
   as much a battlefield as actual territory. But in the case of Israel’s
   the civilian population of the besieged territory—propaganda has taken
   a bizarre turn. This is propaganda that barely makes any effort to
   convince, instead offering ludicrous arguments in implausible forms. To
   pay attention to Israeli propaganda in recent weeks is like watching a
   magic trick done by an inept conjurer who constantly lets the audience
   see the mirrors and wires that are supposed to create optical
   illusions.

   As Hussein Ibish, a resident scholar at the Arab Gulf States Institute
   notes, “Israel’s propaganda has always been ham-handed and ridiculous,
   but during this Gaza war, it has been so pathetically bad and jumped
   the shark so terribly that it’s going to be very difficult to restore
   any credibility at all with a great many people in the US and Europe.”
--
   it. The IDF blamed the fiasco on a “translation error.”

   On November 15, Middle East Monitor reported, “The Israeli army killed
   an elderly Palestinian after using him in a propaganda campaign
   promoting its ‘safe corridor’ in Gaza.” The IDF circulated a photo of
   the 79-year old man, Bashir Hajji, talking to IDF soldiers as proof of
   their careful shepherding of refugees fleeing the bombardment in the
--
   similar claims about mass shootings in the United States. It is
   astonishing for a government to make such claims.

   The biggest ongoing propaganda fiasco involves Al-Shifa hospital—one
   that deeply implicates not just the Israeli government but also the
   Biden administration. On October 13, the IDF released an elaborate
   drawing purporting to show the “the main headquarters for Hamas’
--
   policies by multiple governments (including the United States) to
   sideline the issue of Palestinian statehood.

   Israel’s poor propaganda is another indication of Israeli incompetence.
   Yet all these failures count for little as long as Israel benefits from
   the soft bigotry of low expectations by its supporters, including the
   president of the United States.
--
   when the errors are pointed out, these same videos are carefully edited
   to delete the falsehood when placed online, without an editorial note
   explaining or acknowledging what was cut. In effect, CNN is the IDF’s
   partner in propaganda.

   But then Israel’s half-baked propaganda isn’t aimed at regular people.
   The American public is quickly souring on Israel’s war. As Reuters
   reports, only 32 percent of Americans support Israel in this conflict,
   down from 41 percent a month ago. The same poll shows 68 percent
--
   Sadly, the fact that the public isn’t buying Israel’s campaign of lies
   counts for little. Foreign policy is made by elites. Biden and the US
   Congress are still firmly behind Israel. Even if Joe Biden is the only
   person on earth who really believes Israel’s propaganda, that is more
   than enough to make it successful.
   Keep Reading
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-101">
<text>
   Article
   Europe's Edge

Behind the Lines: propaganda Poisoning

   By Elina Beketova
   November 30, 2023

   Russia’s propaganda campaign in Ukraine’s occupied territories is
   producing a lot of content, but does it cut through?
   Photo: TV Appeal of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin to the
   citizens of Russia, personnel of the Armed Forces of the Russian
--
   with PMC Wagner. Credit: Photo by Artem Priakhin / SOPA Images/Sipa USA

   Immediately after the full-scale invasion in February 2022, Russia
   intensified its propaganda messaging through TV stations, newspapers,
   and other conventional outlets, but its main priority was online.

   Since creating content for TV channels and newspapers is expensive, the
--
   “More people are subscribed to the ‘official’ Telegram channels of the
   the information needed for living in the occupied territories.”

   The Russians exploit these subscriptions by posting propaganda material
   faked videos about life in Ukrainian-controlled territory posted on the
   channel of the Russian-appointed governor of the occupied part of
   Kherson Oblast, Nikitenko said.
--
   Throughout the war, the occupiers have struggled to create media that
   is popular among local residents. In March 2022 they seized the Kherson
   it to re-broadcast Russian channels until the creation of Tavria, a
   propaganda channel using Suspline’s infrastructure.

   Attempts to find local collaborators failed because most local media
   workers didn’t want to work with Russian forces, so people loyal to
--
   Black Sea port of Sevastopol, Crimea, October 27, 2018. Credit:
   REUTERS/Pavel Rebrov

   And the teenagers working on propaganda channels have attracted the
   attention of the Kremlin. Vlada Lugovskaya, who was 15 years old when
   she started working for Tavria, was presented with an award for courage
   by President Vladimir Putin at a ceremony in Moscow on International
--
   at Tavria.

   Despite Russia’s emphasis on new media, Serhii Nikitenko has convinced
   the biggest propaganda effect in Kherson was delivered by Russian
   television when it was broadcast in the occupied Ukrainian territory
   and the newspaper Naddneprianskaia pravda.

--
   been about 40 editions.”

   Nikitenko stresses the importance of working to counter Russian
   disinformation in the occupied territories using all means at Ukraine’s
   disposal, whether that’s Telegram, radio stations, or any other ways of
   contacting people, he said.

   The more time that passes, the more residents will see the distorted
   reality of the propaganda channels and the greater the risk they will
   be converted to the “Russian world” mentality, he warned.

   There have been multiple cases of people who live under Moscow’s rule
   in Donetsk and Luhansk repeating Russian propaganda, then taking up
   arms and going to war against their fellow citizens in other parts of
   Ukraine. That trend needs to be stopped.

--
   enim-poki-rosiya-namagayet-83649
   A Slow Wooing: Ukraine Makes the Anti-Imperial Case to Africa
   December 7, 2023
   disinformation
   Europe's Edge
   Hybrid Threats
   Russia
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-102">
<text>

Business

Democrats accuse Twitter of profiting off Hamas propaganda

The letter calls for Linda Yaccarino and Elon Musk to answer by December 1

--
   By Brian Fung and Samantha Delouya | CNN

   A group of House Democrats has accused X, the platform formerly known
   as Twitter, of profiting from Hamas propaganda and misinformation about
   the Israel-Hamas war after reports by independent researchers found
   numerous accounts glorifying the US-sanctioned terror group.

--
   Citing analyses by groups including the Institute for Strategic
   Dialogue, NewsGuard and the Tech Transparency Project, Tuesday’s letter
   said lawmakers were “outraged by the clear indicators that X is
   profiting from the spread of Hamas’s terrorist propaganda — both
   through monthly subscription fees collected from some propaganda
   spreaders, and through ads displayed in replies to posts by both
   Premium and regular accounts.”

--

   “Given X’s major cuts to content moderation staff over the last year,
   it appears that X has willfully permitted, and benefited from, the
   illegal spread of terrorist propaganda,” wrote the group, led by Reps.
   Adam Schiff of California, Daniel Goldman of New York and Jamie Raskin
   of Maryland. “Such behavior from one of the world’s most widely used
   social media platforms is wholly unacceptable.”
--
   Yaccarino, who until now has sought to position herself as a cheery
   counterweight to Musk’s flirtation with far-right extremism. The letter
   calls for Yaccarino and Musk to answer by December 1 to allegations
   that X has amplified terrorist propaganda in violation of its own
   policies.

   It comes a day after the Senate Judiciary Committee said it had
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-11">
<text>
   #Boston University » Misinformation, disinformation, and the
   Israel-Hamas War Comments Feed alternate alternate

   Skip to Main Content
--

   Pioneering Research from Boston University

Misinformation, disinformation, and the Israel-Hamas War

   Photo: Palestinians inspect the destruction following the attack on the
   Ahli Arab Hospital, which killed dozens of civilians. Photo by:
--
   aftermath of the attack, many news outlets were forced to apologize
   after initially reporting Hamas’ unverified claims that Israel was to
   blame. Photo by Mohammad Abu Elsebah/picture-alliance/dpa/AP Images
   disinformation

Misinformation and disinformation—What They Mean for the Israel-Hamas War

Bad information of any kind, intentional or accidental, leads to a “polluted
information environment” that can make it hard to tell what’s real and what’s
--
   fellow at Boston University’s Center for Philosophy &amp; History of
   Science.

   “One of the dangers here is that disinformation doesn’t just get you to
   believe a false thing is true; it also gets you to believe a true thing
   is false. That’s the poison that disinformation puts in the
   atmosphere,” McIntyre says.

   There’s an important distinction between the words disinformation and
   misinformation, he says: disinformation is an intentional falsehood,
   whereas misinformation is an accident.

   “Misinformation is when someone shares a falsehood, believing it to be
   true. Maybe they’ve been duped by someone else, but it’s information
   they think is true that they pass along,” he says. “disinformation, on
   the other hand, is an intentional falsehood that someone created and
   shared in hopes of deceiving other people, for a purpose.”

   Both can be—and often are—at play during especially fraught global
   events, such as a presidential election or an emerging war. But,
   McIntyre says, disinformation in particular leaves insidious damage in
   its wake: “One thing that disinformation does is it erodes not only
   your knowledge base, but your trust in other people to tell you the
   truth, because sometimes disinformation comes in a neat little package

   In this polluted information environment, truth and falsehoods exist
   side-by-side, and it can be difficult for even usually trustworthy
--
   Nations has called for an independent international investigation into
   the explosion.

   I personally think the most dangerous part of disinformation is the way
   it can make us cynical, because it plays right into the authoritarians’
   hands.

--
   advantage of this confusing and convoluted influx of information to
   move public opinion.

   “I personally think the most dangerous part of disinformation is the
   way it can make us cynical, because it plays right into the
   authoritarians’ hands. Authoritarians love to use disinformation—maybe
   they can convince you [to believe their narrative], but even if they
   can’t convince you, they can demoralize you and make you feel like
   there’s no use even fighting back,” he says.

   Writing in Time magazine, BU’s Joan Donovan, a renowned expert in
   torrent of “true horror, violent pronunciations, sadness, and
   disinformation” online when talking about Hamas and Israel on social
   media is more than the “fog of war.” A College of Communication
   assistant professor, Donovan writes that “we are involved in an
   information war playing out across all social media platforms every
   day,” often as unwitting participants who share what may be dubious
   posts.

   disinformation is everywhere, and thanks to artificial
   intelligence–powered tools, it’s easier to make than ever, McIntyre
   says, but he urges people not to lose hope. His new book, On
   disinformation: How to Fight for Truth and Protect Democracy (MIT
   Press, 2023), outlines straightforward ways people can sift through
   information to determine what’s real.

--

   “This is a depressing topic, and I get that,” he says. “But it is also
   something that we can learn to fight back against. And the primary way
   to fight back is to expose [something as] disinformation. As I often
   say, ‘You cannot win a disinformation war unless you realize you’re in

Explore Related Topics:

--

Share

   Misinformation, disinformation, and the Israel-Hamas War

Share

--
   accept comments written in English. Statistics or facts must include a
   citation or a link to the citation.

There are 8 comments on Misinformation, disinformation, and the Israel-Hamas
War

    1.
--
            generally always reject the claim that they are responsible so
            we are in no position to decide who is telling the truth and
            then comment on an article about misinformation and
            disinformation in such a way.
            Like I said though, I agree with your statements about
            mainstream media being corrupt and not to be trusted but I do
            hope we genuinely understand that and avoid the traps.
--
   Expert Take

We Need Stronger Safeguards from Artificial Intelligence
   disinformation

Misinformation, disinformation, and the Israel-Hamas War
   Crime Scene Science

Video: Updating the Science of Bloodstain Analysis and Forensics
--
   Email check failed, please try again
   Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.

   Misinformation, disinformation, and the Israel-Hamas War
   8
   share this
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-12">
<text>



   China linked to propaganda campaign targeting Trudeau, Poilievre, says
   Global Affairs | CBC News Loaded
   Politics

China linked to propaganda campaign targeting Trudeau, Poilievre, says Global
Affairs

   The Chinese government likely was behind a “spamouflage” disinformation
   campaign targeting Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Conservative Leader
   Pierre Poilievre and other MPs in August and September, says Global
   Affairs Canada.
--
   Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Chinese President Xi Jinping listen
   to opening remarks at a plenary session at the G20 Summit in Osaka,
   Japan on June 28, 2019. GAC says the PRC targeted Trudeau and other MPs
   with an online propaganda campaign. (Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press)

Social Sharing

   The Chinese government likely was behind a "spamouflage" disinformation
   campaign targeting Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Conservative Leader
   Pierre Poilievre and other MPs in August and September, says Global
   Affairs Canada.

   The department's Rapid Response Mechanism (RRM), which was set up to
   monitor foreign state-sponsored disinformation efforts, said the
   campaign was "connected to the People's Republic of China" and was
   meant to curb criticism of the communist regime.

   According to a report released Monday morning, the propaganda campaign
   began in August and targeted dozens of MPs from across the political
   spectrum.

   A "spamouflage" campaign is one which uses a network of new or hijacked
   social media accounts to post propaganda messages across
   various platforms, such as Facebook, X/Twitter, Instagram, YouTube,
   Medium, Reddit, TikTok and LinkedIn.
   A politician looks to his right as he leaves a news conference in a
--
   Canada.

   The government said the same bot networks were engaged in
   spreading disinformation claiming that the Hawaiian wildfires were
   caused by a secret U.S. military "weather weapon," and have been
   connected to disinformation about Japan's decision in August 2023 to
   release millions of tons of treated radioactive water from the wrecked
   Fukushima nuclear power plant.

   In August, the Rapid Response Mechanism reported that a disinformation
   information about Conservative MP Michael Chong. That campaign
   spread false narratives about his identity, including commentary and
   claims about his background, political stances and family heritage.
   WATCH | PM, MPs targets of disinformation campaign:

China likely targeted PM, MPs in propaganda campaign, Global Affairs says

   2 months ago
   Duration 2:01
   Global Affairs Canada says Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Opposition
   Leader Pierre Poilievre and other MPs were the targets of a
   ‘spamouflage’ campaign, likely by China's government, that spread
   propaganda and disinformation on social media.

   At the time, GAC said China's role in the information operation was
   "highly probable."
--

   "If at the root of this foreign interference activity is a foreign
   state or non-state actor deliberately attempting to inflict damage and
   circulate disinformation in a Canadian electoral context, absolutely

   Hogue has to deliver an interim report by the end of February. A final
   report is due by the end of 2024.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-13">
<text>

   Politics

China investing "unprecedented resources" in disinformation, surveillance
tactics, new report says

   By Olivia Gazis
--
   September 28, 2023 / 8:28 PM EDT / CBS News

   China's government is investing "unprecedented resources" in a range of
   disinformation, surveillance and censorship tactics it uses in efforts
   to shape international narratives in its favor among foreign audiences
   around the world, a new report released Thursday by the State
   Department said.
--
   telecommunications technologies to monitor and control information

   Chinese state media "routinely amplified" pro-Kremlin or anti-NATO
   propaganda in the wake of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, including
   boosting Moscow's claims there were secret biological weapons
   facilities funded by the United States on Ukraine's territory,
   according to the report.

   "Russia has returned the favor by promoting PRC propaganda related to
   Taiwan and other PRC interests," the report said.

   One example included in the report noted the Beijing "heavily
--
   It also said Beijing's successes were more limited in democratic
   countries.

   "Although backed by unprecedented resources, the PRC's propaganda and
   censorship have, to date, yielded mixed results," the report said.
   "When targeting democratic countries, Beijing has encountered major
   setbacks, often due to pushback from local media and civil society."
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-14">
<text>

   CBS Saturday Morning

Social media disinformation spreads amid war in Israel

   cbs-mornings-saturday

--
   Misinformation amid the Israel-Hamas war 03:00

   As the war in Israel and Gaza plays out in real time on social media,
   experts say bad information and propaganda are spreading on X, formerly
   known as Twitter.

   Alethea, a research group, said that they had detected a network of at
--
   The war comes after Elon Musk, the owner of X, laid off much of the
   team responsible for monitoring posts on the site. On Tuesday, the
   European Union sent the billionaire a letter asking him to immediately
   remove "illegal content and disinformation." If not, "penalties can be
   imposed," the E.U. warned.

   X said early last week that they have already removed "Hamas-affiliated
   accounts" and "several hundred accounts." Other major social media
   platforms, including Facebook, TikTok, and Snap told CBS News that they
   have increased their resources to fight disinformation.

   Mike Caulfield, a research scientist at the Center for an Informed
   Public, a multidisciplinary research center at Seattle's University of
   Washington, said that ongoing disinformation can cause chaos.

   "When we flood people with this sea of unvetted information, much of it
   deceptive, we're throwing away the goodwill of our citizens," Caulfield
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-15">
<text>
A.I. presents dangers to democracy, experts say

   The 2024 election could be the next great test for how fast
   misinformation and disinformation spreads, as well as how voters combat
   its spread.

   how effective misinformation is. It cost $5 and took a total of 10
--

   The experiment showed other lawmakers in Michigan just how effective
   the technology is. And without better regulations and rules around its
   use and spread, misinformation and disinformation driven by A.I. and
   deepfake videos and recordings could have their way come the 2024
   election.

--
   in any other way. We need to be more responsible for what we consume,
   what we tell other people, what we share. And itʼs exhausting."

   What might help is defining what misinformation and disinformation
   are.

   The former refers to things that are not true, false information or
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-16">
<text>

   Media

Barack Obama lectures about 'widespread disinformation' on World Press
Freedom Day: 'Truth matters'

The Obama administration spied on journalists and seized their records
--

   On World Press Freedom Day Wednesday, a video was posted on Twitter of
   former President Barack Obama lecturing about "widespread
   disinformation and the need for journalists to create "an information
   environment" to support democracy.

   Obama had previously recorded the video for a conference on democracy
   held by the Columbia Journalism School in late April. In the clip, he
   touted the importance of journalism in the struggle for democracy and
   ways to combat disinformation and promote journalistic efforts to
   defend the truth.

   In sharing the video on Twitter, the Obama Foundation wrote, "This
--

   The former president also espoused the fight for democracy against
   issues such as "inequality," "polarization" and "widespread
   disinformation."

   "I talk a lot about how democracy is neither inevitable nor
   self-executing. Citizens like us have to nurture it. We have to tend to
--

   He added, "Our democracy has always faced its share of challenges, but
   increasingly it feels like we’re at an inflection point. Rising
   inequality, deepening polarization and widespread disinformation. At
   the same time, we’re also trying to adapt to advancements in technology
   like AI that can profoundly change our world. If we want to preserve
   need all of you to help us do it."
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-17">
<text>

   POLITICS

Free speech concerns mount over DHS 'disinformation' board as lawmakers,
critics weigh in

Secretary Mayorkas announced the creation of the 'disinformation Governance
Board' Wednesday

   Kelly Laco By Kelly Laco Fox News
   Published April 30, 2022 6:03am EDT

   close
   Biden disinformation czar goes viral for TikTok song Video

Biden disinformation czar goes viral for TikTok song

   'Outnumbered' panelists discuss the possible impacts of Biden's new
   disinformation governance board on free speech.

   Federal and state lawmakers, constitutional scholars and other experts
   are expressing concerns with the Department of Homeland Security's new
--

   Mayorkas announced during testimony Wednesday before the House
   Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security that DHS had created a
   disinformation Governance Board to combat online disinformation.

   "The goal is to bring the resources of (DHS) together to address this
   threat," Mayorkas said during the hearing, adding that the department
   is focused on the spread of disinformation in minority communities
   ahead of the 2022 midterm elections.

   REPUBLICANS ACCUSE MAYORKAS OF DISCREDITING 'LEGITIMATE CRITICISM' WITH
   'disinformation' BOARD, DEMAND INFO

   Nina Jankowicz will be executive director of the misinformation board.

   Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., was quick to condemn this latest action by the
   Biden administration, promising to introduce legislation to defund the
   new disinformation board.

   "The Federal Government has no business creating a Ministry of Truth.
   The Department of Homeland Security's disinformation Board" is
   unconstitutional and unamerican, and I'll be introducing a bill to
   defund it," he tweeted Friday.

--
   expressing "serious concerns" about the lack of information about the
   activities of the board under Jankowicz's leadership.

   MAYORKAS TESTIFIES DHS IS CREATING 'disinformation GOVERNANCE BOARD'

   In addition, Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo., tweeted, "I don’t think
   people are fully understanding the severity of what a Ministry of Truth
--
   The issue has spread to states, with GOP lawmakers and leaders pushing
   back.

   WHITE HOUSE DEFENDS DHS 'disinformation' BOARD: 'NOT SURE WHO OPPOSES
   THAT EFFORT'

   "Clearly, our entire principles that the country was founded on you
--
   Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt wrote a letter to Mayorkas
   Friday that was obtained exclusively by Fox News Digital. In the
   letter, Schmitt states that the focus of the "Orewellian" board to
   focus resources on the threat of "mis/disinformation should "shock the
   very core of the American belief system, a threat to free speech that
   will rightly alarm freedom-loving people across America, including
   those in my home state of Missouri."

   Brookings Institute Senior Fellow Shadi Hamid said the disinformation
   board is "not exactly a reassuring thought."

   "How is this even up for debate? The government should not be involved
--

   "That the Biden Admin casually announced today that the Dept of
   Homeland Security — a domestic security agency — has created a
   ‘disinformation’ board is indescribably dystopian and chilling,"
   Independent journalist Glenn Greenwald tweeted Thursday. "That
   Democrats think this is good and normal tells you all you need to know
   about them."
--
   CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

   The White House defended the DHS board Thursday, saying its objective
   is to prevent disinformation in a "range" of communities.

   "It sounds like the objective of the board is to prevent disinformation
   and misinformation from traveling around the country in a range of
   communities," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said in response to
   Republican criticism of the board during a daily press briefing. "I'm
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-18">
<text>
   against a really tough fight.”

   The world’s biggest news outlets, now in 24/7 war coverage mode, are up
   against a parallel fight against disinformation and defamation.
   Reporters say they have never seen it this bad. Ward’s compelling
   Oct. 9 live shot, which should have been a point of pride, prompted
   weeks of pain. Videos of her report were met with hateful comments
--
   In conversations with two dozen staffers at outlets like The New York
   Times, ABC and Al Jazeera, some of whom are working in the war zone, I
   heard about four overwhelming and overlapping challenges: dangerous
   conditions, factual disputes, distortions and disinformation.

   Physical dangers are paramount: Press freedom groups say that two dozen
   members of the media have died amid the fighting, mostly Palestinians.
--
   blasted out news alerts before it was possible to have any independent
   sourcing or reporting. Israeli officials were furious, and so were some
   journalists in the offending newsrooms. “We claim to care deeply about
   disinformation, but we’re part of the problem,” one Times staffer said
   to me, a point echoed by several others.

   Information is scarcest when public interest is greatest and the
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-19">
<text>

   Israel

Fearing denial and disinformation, Israel shows journalists raw footage of
Hamas attacks

   By Eliyahu Freedman October 23, 2023 2:51 pm
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-2">
<text>
   #alternate alternate alternate Diálogo Américas » Feed Diálogo Américas
   » Comments Feed Diálogo Américas » Russian propaganda and
   disinformation Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   Skip to content

--

   Search for: ____________________ Search

   HomeAcademiaRussian propaganda and disinformation

Russian propaganda and disinformation

   Russian propaganda and disinformation
   Illustration/Diálogo

   BY Martin Verrier, associate fellow, Royal United Services Institute /
--
   the reader that the most effective campaign is the one that is won by
   indirect methods to break the enemy’s will to fight before the battle
   begins. In many ways, this principle remains the main objective of
   covert actions, propaganda and information operations.

   In February 2021, Twitter published a report documenting 373 accounts
   believed to be part of a coordinated effort by Iran, Armenia and Russia
--
   each other’s positions. This struggle can be traced back to the Cold
   War.

   Covert propaganda during the Cold War

   During the Cold War, both the U.S. and the Soviet Union relied on
   propaganda as an information operations tool to undermine and degrade
   their adversaries’ will to fight. By the 1970s, BBC broadcasts to the
   East bloc were listened to by almost 50% of the Soviet population,
   despite Soviet efforts to jam these transmissions. It is also true that
   the West effectively used propaganda to disseminate information on the
   benefits of capitalism. For example, Western films were used to
   propagate capitalism’s and democracy’s benefits, and to demonize
   communism. In the 1950s, the CIA bought the movie rights to George
   Orwell’s book “Animal Farm” to use as a propaganda tool in the East
   bloc. Western efforts to undermine communist governments in the East
   proved detrimental to Soviet performance during the Cold War.

--
   have links to East bloc intelligence agencies. Other tactics included
   supporting separatist and nationalist movements by financing
   information operations, and the intensive use of dezinformatsiya, or
   disinformation, campaigns that included blaming the spread of HIV on
   the CIA. During the Cold War, a large part of information operations
   was also oriented toward influencing local populations in the Soviet
   Union and satellite countries. The main objectives of this strategy
--
   documents as models to fabricate false war plans designed to build
   tension between countries. Agents of influence were another tool for
   conducting information operations. These agents recruited sympathizers,
   who weren’t aware that they were being used to spread disinformation.
   The World Peace Council’s campaign, including demonstrations against
   enhanced radiation weapons in the U.S., was an example of the Soviet
   use of agents of influence. Finally, the Soviet Union relied on
--
   fake news through conventional media outlets. While these campaigns
   were directed at domestic news outlets, Soviet agents also targeted the
   foreign press, inserting falsely attributed material. For instance, the
   TASS news agency oversaw the global spread of Soviet propaganda. It had
   a substantial overseas representation with more than 400 staff and
   correspondents in 126 countries. Many of them were connected to Soviet
   state security organs, including foreign intelligence.
--
   and how that can affect democracy and even the rule of law.
   Additionally, it has proved to the world how social media plays a vital
   role in propagating cleverly tailored messages and how traditional
   media can be used to spread disinformation or misinformation. Russia
   has shown that information operations can have more tangible results
   than in the past and may be used in a kinetic way with immediate
   tactical results.
--
   West. This is not the only link to the past. RT can be traced back to
   TASS and APN, media outlets that distributed tailored Soviet
   information around the world. With its speed, social media has
   revolutionized the way disinformation is spread. But the objectives
   remain similar to those of the Cold War agents of influence. Moreover,
   the current trend of using information operations to influence the
   Russian diaspora abroad is intimately related to its defensive
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-20">
<text>
   Politics

Supreme Court will decide Biden-GOP clash over social media and COVID
disinformation

   Light illuminates part of the Supreme Court building at dusk
   The Supreme Court building in Washington.
--
   The Supreme Court agreed Friday to hear a second major case on social
   media and will decide whether the Biden White House violated the 1st
   Amendment when it urged platforms to take down “misinformation and
   disinformation” about COVID-19.

   Three conservatives dissented and said the court should have kept in
   place a judge’s order that barred administration officials from
--

   The second view is that federal officials violated the 1st Amendment
   when they “significantly encouraged” social media sites to remove
   disinformation.

   The common element in both cases is that Republican officials in Texas,
   Louisiana and Missouri as well as the 5th Circuit judges believe
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-21">
<text>

   Some quick background: In 2017, the Department of Homeland Security
   purview. The agency has since been key in garnering insight and
   spread of misinformation and disinformation online.

   The issue of online disinformation came to a head during the 2016
   presidential election, and it remains a problem in the lead-up to the
   2024 elections. Of course, many Republicans these days rely on
   propaganda rooted in falsehoods to advance their political goals, so
   they have portrayed federal agencies’ war against disinformation as a
   war on conservatives.

   That’s how we get to Tuesday’s interim staff report, which accuses CISA
--
   conclusions about content moderation.

   However, the committee’s chair, Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, isn’t letting
   the facts drown out some useful propaganda. He and his conservative
   allies have been building up to this report for several months now.
   ProPublica reported in March that Jordan had begun issuing “sweeping
   information requests” to universities and a think tank, in which he
--
   “censorship regime.”

   On June 6, The Washington Post reported on Kate Starbird, the
   co-founder of an anti-disinformation think tank at the University of
   Washington who has faced online harassment over her work. Some of the
   documents Jordan obtained relating to Starbird appear to form the basis

   For example, the report notes that Starbird formerly served as chair of
   the now-defunct Protecting Critical Infrastructure from Misinformation
   &amp; disinformation subcommittee, which the Department of Homeland
   Security established for disinformation experts to provide insight to
   CISA. The report cites communications from Starbird in which she
   expressed concern about public attention.

   And reading the report, one might conclude Starbird thought the
   advisory board had something to hide. But at the time, right-wing
   conspiracy theorists were spreading lies about the disinformation work
   within the DHS — including the creation of a now-defunct disinformation
   Governance Board. With that as context, Starbird’s words read as though
   she’s simply concerned about the public perception of the advisory
   board’s work — perhaps even concerned that its intentions would be
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-22">
<text>

   America's Diverse Vote

2020 election disinformation targeted voters of color and 2024 will be worse,
groups say

   Community organizations are preparing for what they expect to be a
   worsening onslaught of disinformation targeting communities of color
   and immigrant communities.
   Early Voters Continues Heading To Polls In Florida
   Voters wait in line to cast their early ballots on Oct. 28, 2020 in
--
   communities of color.

   As the 2024 election approaches, community organizations are preparing
   for what they expect to be a worsening onslaught of disinformation
   targeting communities of color and immigrant communities. They say the
   tailored campaigns challenge assumptions of what kinds of voters are
   susceptible to election conspiracies and distrust in voting systems.
--

   A growing subset of communities of color, especially immigrants for
   whom English is not their first language, are questioning the integrity
   2020 election, said Jenny Liu, mis/disinformation policy manager at the
   nonprofit Asian Americans Advancing Justice. Still, she said these
   communities are largely left out of conversations about misinformation.

--
   think of someone who’s older, maybe from a rural area, maybe a white
   man,” she said. “You don’t think of Chinese Americans scrolling through
   WeChat. That’s why this narrative glosses over and erases a lot of the
   disinformation harms that many communities of colors face.”

Tailoring disinformation

   In addition to general misinformation themes about voting machines and
   mail-in voting, groups are catering their messaging to communities of
--
   Venezuela or who have lived through the Chinese Cultural Revolution may
   be “more vulnerable to misinformation claiming politicians are wanting
   to turn the U.S. into a Socialist state,” said Inga Trauthig, head of
   research for the propaganda Research Lab at the Center for Media
   Engagement at the University of Texas at Austin. People from countries
   that have not recently had free and fair elections may have a
   preexisting distrust of elections and authority that may make them
   vulnerable to misinformation as well, Trauthig said.

   disinformation efforts often hinge on topics most important to each
   community, whether that is public safety, immigration, abortion,
   education, inflation or alleged extramarital affairs, said Laura
   Zommer, co-founder of the Spanish-language fact-checking group
--
   work from Buenos Aires, Argentina, on the night of the 2022 U.S.
   Midterm elections.Laura Zommer / AP

How disinformation spreads

   disinformation, often in languages like Spanish, Mandarin or Hindi,
   flows onto social media apps like WhatsApp and WeChat heavily used by
   communities of color.

--
   spaces” found on messaging apps or groups on social media sites like
   Facebook, Trauthig said.

   “But disinformation also targets them on these platforms, even though
   it may feel to them to be that safer space,” she said.

   Messages on WhatsApp are also encrypted and can’t be easily seen or
--
   “As a result, messages on apps like WhatsApp often fly under the radar
   and are allowed to spread and spread, largely unchecked,” said Randy
   Abreu, policy counsel for the National Hispanic Media Coalition, which
   leads the Spanish Language disinformation Coalition.

   Abreu also raised concerns about Spanish YouTube channels and radio
   shows that are growing in popularity. He said the coalition is tracking
--
   elections. Many of these videos remained on the platform, despite
   violating YouTube election misinformation policy, the report said.

disinformation — and disenfranchisement

   Amid changes in voting policies at state and local levels, advocates
   are sounding the alarm on how disinformation about voting in 2024 may
   target communities of color. Many of these efforts have surged as Asian
   American, Black and Latino communities have grown in political power,
   said María Teresa Kumar, founding president of the nonprofit advocacy
   group Voto Latino.

   “disinformation is, at its core, meant to be a sort of voter
   suppression tactic for communities of color,” she said. “It targets
   communities of color in a way that feeds into their already justifiable
   concerns that the system is stacked against them.”
--

   While many of the same recycled claims around alleged fraud in the 2020
   and 2022 elections are expected to resurface, experts say
   disinformation campaigns will likely be more sophisticated and granular
   in attempts to target specific groups of voters of color.

   Trauthig also raised concerns about how layoffs and instability at
--
   communities of color to help approach trends in misinformation
   narratives, experts said.

   “These are not monolithic groups,” Cruz said. “This disinformation is
   very specifically tailored to each of these communities and their
   fears. So we also need to be partnering with grassroots organizations
   in each of these communities to tailor our approaches. If we don’t take
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-23">
<text>

   War in Ukraine

Facebook, Twitter remove disinformation accounts targeting Ukrainians

   The larger of the two disinformation groups operated in Russia, as well
   as the Russian-dominated Donbas and Crimea regions of Ukraine.
   Get more newson

--
   Facebook and Twitter removed two anti-Ukrainian “covert influence
   connections to Belarus, the companies said.

   One of the operations, a propaganda campaign featuring a website
   pushing anti-Ukraine talking points, was an offshoot of a known Russian
   disinformation operation. A Facebook spokesperson said it used
   computer-generated faces to bolster the credibility of fake columnists
   across several platforms, including Instagram.

   The other campaign used hacked accounts to push similar anti-Ukraine
   propaganda and was tied to a known Belarusian hacking group.

   disinformation experts warned that Russia is expected to continue to
   try to manipulate narratives about Ukraine — most notably around the
   claims made by Russian President Vladimir Putin.

--
   military operation, which has since turned into a large-scale invasion.

   The announcement also demonstrates that Russia continues to use
   disinformation strategies first identified years ago around the 2016
   election, albeit with some advancements — most notably the use of
   software that can create realistic and original human faces.

   The larger of the two disinformation groups operated in Russia, as well
   as the Russian-dominated Donbas and Crimea regions of Ukraine, said
   Nathaniel Gleicher, Meta's head of security policy, and it is tied to
   the websites News Front and South Front, which the U.S. government has
   designated as part of a broader disinformation effort that had
   connections to Russian intelligence. (Meta is the parent company of
   Facebook.)

   Gleicher said in an interview that the propaganda campaign was able to
   “seed stories across the internet that Ukraine isn’t doing well” by
   “pretending to be journalists based in Kyiv.”

--
   connections to the accounts that were previously banned. Both websites
   have pushed misleading articles, questioning the results of the 2020
   presidential election and the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines. The State
   Department identified the websites as Russian disinformation outlets in
   a 2020 report.

   The websites featured articles pushing Russian talking points like
--
   and linked out to their accounts on VKontakte, Russia’s Facebook
   competitor.

   Facebook said it took down 40 profiles tied to the disinformation
   persona-building operation that spread across Twitter, Instagram,
   Telegram and Russian social networks.

--

   Twitter said it banned more than a dozen accounts tied to the News
   Front and South Front Russian operation, which were pushing links to a
   new propaganda site called Ukraine Today.

   “On Feb. 27, we permanently suspended more than a dozen accounts and
   blocked sharing of several links in violation of our platform
--
   taken down a series of channels tied to a Russian influence operation,
   though the channels have very low numbers of subscribers.

   Facebook said it took down a separate multipronged disinformation
   Ukrainians. The company said it hacked social media accounts to use
   them to spread pro-Russian propaganda.

   The hackers targeted journalists, military personnel and local public
   log into their Facebook profiles. The hacked accounts would then post a
--
   surrender.

   Facebook attributed the efforts to the hacking group Ghostwriter, which
   previously used hacked accounts to push disinformation that favored the
   Belarus government. The Ghostwriter hacking group works for the Belarus
   government, according to the cybersecurity firm Mandiant.

--
   some time to spin up a network of fake accounts.”
   Ben Collins

   Ben Collins covers disinformation, extremism and the internet for NBC
   News.
   Jo Ling Kent
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-24">
<text>

   War in Ukraine

Russian disinformation, propaganda ramp up as conflict in Ukraine grows

   disinformation experts say they have already seen a concerted effort to
   push a false narrative around the reasons for invading Ukraine — and
   that more is on the way.
   Image: fragments of military equipment in Kharkiv, Ukraine
--
   Feb. 24, 2022, 4:36 PM UTC / Updated Feb. 26, 2022, 3:06 PM UTC
   By Jason Abbruzzese

   Russia’s effort to spread disinformation and propaganda across the
   internet and through foreign and domestic media about its invasion of
   Ukraine started weeks ago — and it’s expected to ramp up now that the
   conflict has begun.

   disinformation experts say that they have seen a concerted effort from
   Russian leaders and state-backed media to push a false narrative around
   the reasons for invading Ukraine, and that they expect that to continue
   as both international pressure and even some domestic Russian
--
   Politics and Public Policy. “And we need to be prepared for that.”

   Lytvynenko said people should be prepared for a wide variety of
   disinformation and propaganda, including the use of authentic images
   and video to push false narratives.

   “We know that propaganda is a part of every war, and we know that after
   every attack we see a flood of propaganda,” she said. “This propaganda
   can take many forms. It can try to take videos out of context and claim
   for them to be something else. It can show Russian attacks as more
   powerful than they actually were.
--

   Videos and images have already begun to pour out of Ukraine, many
   showing destroyed military vehicles and explosions. And during a
   conflict, disinformation and propaganda can also be a tool used by all
   sides. Some media that is circulating has been found to be recycled
   from other conflicts, including one post from a verified Ukrainian
   military Facebook page that posted what purported to be Ukrainian
--
   "I feel like we’re seeing a lot of stuff that has truth to it but is
   mixed up or the description misinterprets what’s going on."

   disinformation often conjures memories of the 2016 U.S. presidential
   election, when Russian bots pushed misleading and politically divisive
   claims on social media. But that will not necessarily be the playbook
   for the conflict with Ukraine, according to Ben Strickland, director of
--
   campaigns.

   Strickland said he’s seen a shift in recent days away from Russian
   propaganda that sought to blame Western democracies and NATO for
   causing tensions and toward justifying an invasion of Ukraine. That has
   included disinformation and false accusations about fascists and
   neo-Nazis in Ukraine.

   “From about Feb. 14 onward we started to see the use of the term
--
   Russian state-backed media outlets.”


   Strickland said that most of the disinformation his organization has
   tracked has not been pushed by the kinds of bot-driven social media
   campaigns, but has instead been mostly focused on disseminating
   information on so-called false flag attacks (fake events meant to
--
   and mass casualties and then seeing that used as ‘Ukrainians are the
   terrorists,’” he said.

   Stickland noted that these kinds of disinformation efforts are
   primarily meant to shore up support for military conflict within
   Russia, pointing specifically to the state-backed media outlet RT.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-25">
<text>

   Israel-Hamas war

E.U. demands Meta and TikTok detail efforts to curb disinformation from
Israel-Hamas war

   Under the E.U.’s new rules, the biggest tech companies face extra
--

   The European Union ratcheted up its scrutiny of Big Tech companies on
   Thursday with demands for Meta and TikTok to detail their efforts to
   curb illegal content and disinformation during the Israel-Hamas war.

   The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s executive branch,
   formally requested that the social media companies provide information
--

   The commission asked Meta and TikTok to explain the measures they have
   taken to reduce the risk of spreading and amplifying terrorist and
   violent content, hate speech and disinformation.

   Under the E.U.’s new rules, which took effect in August, the biggest
   tech companies face extra obligations to stop a wide range of illegal
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-26">
<text>



   Thousands of FakeReporter volunteers sort through disinformation on
   social media FakeReporter, which has been leaning on its thousands of
   volunteers scattered across the world to try to bring some clarity to
   the pace of war-related claims being made on social media.

World

Thousands of FakeReporter volunteers sort through disinformation on social
media

   October 23, 20235:04 PM ET
--

   Bobby Allyn

Thousands of FakeReporter volunteers sort through disinformation on social
media

   Listen · 4:00 4:00
--
   the brutality of the war's impact on both Israelis and Palestinians.
   But there are also a lot of manipulated or misleading images and videos
   spreading online, and there are groups in many countries trying to
   fight all that disinformation. NPR's Bobby Allyn spoke to one man who
   leads an Israel-based group known as FakeReporter.

   BOBBY ALLYN, BYLINE: Achiya Schatz walked into the kitchen and saw his
--

   ALLYN: Back in the kitchen, talking to his mother-in-law about the
   phony kids-in-the-cage video really made Schatz understand the
   importance of fighting against the spread of disinformation online. He
   says it's not just about separating fact from fiction, but about
   changing how people respond emotionally to a conflict.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-27">
<text>
   #alternate disinformation Researchers Raise Alarms About A.I. Chatbots

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Technology
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

disinformation Researchers Raise Alarms About A.I. Chatbots

   Researchers used ChatGPT to produce clean, convincing text that
   repeated conspiracy theories and misleading narratives.
--
   Crovitz, a co-chief executive of NewsGuard, a company that tracks
   “Crafting a new false narrative can now be done at dramatic scale, and
   much more frequently — it’s like having A.I. agents contributing to
   disinformation.”

   disinformation is difficult to wrangle when it’s created manually by
   humans. Researchers predict that generative technology could make
   disinformation cheaper and easier to produce for an even larger number

   Personalized, real-time chatbots could share conspiracy theories in
   increasingly credible and persuasive ways, researchers say, smoothing
--
   language.

   ChatGPT is far more powerful and sophisticated. Supplied with questions
   loaded with disinformation, it can produce convincing, clean variations
   On Tuesday, Microsoft and OpenAI introduced a new Bing search engine
   and web browser that can use chatbot technology to plan vacations,
   translate texts or conduct research.

disinformation From ChatGPT

   When researchers at NewsGuard asked ChatGPT to write responses based on
   false and misleading ideas, the bot complied about 80 percent of the
--

   OpenAI researchers have long been nervous about chatbots falling into
   nefarious hands, writing in a 2019 paper of their “concern that its
   capabilities could lower costs of disinformation campaigns” and aid in
   the malicious pursuit “of monetary gain, a particular political agenda,
   and/or a desire to create chaos or confusion.”

--
   reference solutions to make sure I wasn’t losing my mind.”

   Researchers also worry that the technology could be exploited by
   foreign agents hoping to spread disinformation in English. Some
   companies already use multilingual chatbots to support customers
   without translators.

--
   Working last month off a sampling of 100 false narratives from before
   2022 (ChatGPT is trained mostly on data through 2021), NewsGuard asked
   the chatbot to write content advancing harmful health claims about
   vaccines, mimicking propaganda and disinformation from China and Russia
   and echoing the tone of partisan news outlets.

   The technology produced responses that seemed authoritative but were
--

Finding Its Voice

   ChatGPT was able to embody the language and voice of disinformation
   peddlers, using popular phrases like “do your own research.” In this
   example, researchers at NewsGuard asked for vaccine misinformation in
   the voice of Joseph Mercola, an anti-vaccine doctor. Pfizer updated its
--
   When The New York Times repeated the experiment using a sample of
   NewsGuard’s questions, ChatGPT was more likely to push back on the
   prompts than when researchers originally ran the test, offering
   disinformation in response to only 33 percent of the questions.
   NewsGuard said that ChatGPT was constantly changing as developers
   tweaked the algorithm and that the bot might respond differently if a
   user repeatedly inputs misinformation.
--
   Stable Diffusion image generator, which she criticized for being
   “available for anyone to use without any hard restrictions.” Stable
   Diffusion, she wrote in an open letter, can and likely has already been
   used to create “images used for disinformation and misinformation
   campaigns.”

   Check Point Research, a group providing cyber threat intelligence,
--
   Audio produced by Kate Winslett.

   Tiffany Hsu is a tech reporter covering misinformation and
   disinformation. More about Tiffany Hsu

   Stuart A. Thompson is a reporter on the Technology desk covering online
   information flows. More about Stuart A. Thompson
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-28">
<text>
   #alternate China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow disinformation, U.S.
   Says

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
--

   Today’s Paper

   Technology|China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow disinformation, U.S.
   Says
   tate-department.html

--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow disinformation, U.S. Says

   The accusations reflect worry in Washington that China’s information

--
   reading “Department of State.”
   The State Department reports that China is using various methods,
   including buying stakes in media organizations and using social media,
   to spread propaganda.Credit...Joshua Roberts/Reuters
   Steven Lee Myers

   By Steven Lee Myers
--
   to democratic principles around the world by promoting “digital
   authoritarianism.”

   China not only pushes its own propaganda, the report said, but exports
   digital surveillance tools to police information and people online.
   Although many of the tactics detailed are not new, the report warned
   that they could “lead nations to make decisions that subordinate their
--
   According to the State Department’s report released on Thursday,
   China’s efforts have evolved from a primary focus on promoting or
   defending the country’s political views on issues like Taiwan and Hong
   Kong to one that aims to sow disinformation to discredit the United
   States at home and abroad.

   That has included accusations about the origins of the Covid pandemic,
--
   channels broadcasting in 12 languages.

   The report said that China has spent billions of dollars to build an
   expansive state news operation under the Central propaganda Department
   and the United Front Work Department, which the report said oversees
   investments in foreign media aimed at Chinese diaspora communities.

--

   The State Department’s Global Engagement Center was established in 2011
   with a focus on countering terrorism and violent extremism. In 2017
   Congress extended its mandate to focus on propaganda and
   disinformation.

   The impact of China’s effort can be difficult to measure, and the
   report suggests that the Chinese campaigns often encounter resistance
--
   Putin.” More about Steven Lee Myers
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 8 of
   the New York edition with the headline: China Accused of Spreading
   disinformation. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-29">
<text>
   #alternate disinformation Is Not the Real Problem With Democracy

   Skip to contentSkip to site index


   Today’s Paper

   Opinion|disinformation Is Not the Real Problem With Democracy
   racy.html

   Advertisement
--

   Opinion

disinformation Is Not the Real Problem With Democracy

   March 11, 2023
   Rows of newspapers on display.
--
   subject.

   Much of the conversation around journalism and democracy concerns the
   problems of misinformation, disinformation and partisan silos. How do
   we ensure that Americans are getting accurate information? How do we
   help people resist conspiracy theories? How do we encourage readers and
   viewers to engage with perspectives outside their own?
--
   I think these are important questions. But to the extent that the
   crisis in American democracy is shaped by the modern information
   environment, I don’t think the problem is misinformation,
   disinformation or partisan silos, because we’ve always had
   misinformation, disinformation and partisan silos.

   The information environment of the early American Republic — the first
   years of the Constitution, leading up to the election of 1800 — was
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-3">
<text>
   antisemitism hearing: ‘Words matter’
   Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later.

EU officials warn Google and YouTube about Hamas-Israel disinformation and
graphic content

   Brian Fung
--
   Washington CNN  —

   The European Commission sent a warning letter Friday to Google and its
   subsidiary YouTube over disinformation and graphic content linked to
   the Hamas-Israel conflict, in the European Union’s latest effort to
   scrutinize Big Tech’s handling of the war.

--
   Breton highlighted legal requirements for Google to keep graphic
   content such as hostage videos away from underage users; to act swiftly
   when authorities flag content that violates European laws; and to
   mitigate disinformation.

   “This brings me to a second area of pressing concern: tackling
   disinformation in the context of elections, a priority which we
   personally discussed when we met in Brussels in May,” Breton wrote,
   referencing upcoming elections in a number of EU countries.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-30">
<text>
   #alternate E.U. Law Sets the Stage for a Clash Over disinformation

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Technology
--

   Today’s Paper

   Technology|E.U. Law Sets the Stage for a Clash Over disinformation
   an-union.html

   Advertisement
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

E.U. Law Sets the Stage for a Clash Over disinformation

   The law, aimed at forcing social media giants to adopt new policies to
   curb harmful content, is expected to face blowback from Elon Musk, who
--
   his political opponent, who is also wearing a blue suit.
   Robert Fico, left, heads Slovakia’s SMER party. As the country heads
   toward an election on Saturday, it has been inundated with
   disinformation and other harmful content on social media
   sites.Credit...Jakub Gavlak/EPA, via Shutterstock
   Steven Lee Myers

--
   in Slovakia doctored to include an African man brandishing a machete.

   As Slovakia heads toward an election on Saturday, the country has been
   inundated with disinformation and other harmful content on social media
   sites. What is different now is a new European Union law that could
   force the world’s social media platforms to do more to fight it — or
   else face fines of up to 6 percent of a company’s revenue.
--

   The law, years of painstaking bureaucracy in the making, reflects a
   growing alarm in European capitals that the unfettered flow of
   disinformation online — much of it fueled by Russia and other foreign
   adversaries — threatens to erode the democratic governance at the core

   Europe’s effort sharply contrasts with the fight against disinformation
   in the United States, which has become mired in political and legal
   debates over what steps, if any, the government may take in shaping
   what the platforms allow on their sites.
--
   While the law’s intentions are sweeping, enforcing the behavior of some
   challenge.

   That task is even more difficult for policing disinformation on social
   media, where anybody can post their views and perceptions of truth are
   systemic problems that caused harm, an untested area of law that could
   ultimately lead to years of litigation.
--

   In what officials and experts described as a warning shot to the
   platforms, the European Commission also released a damning report that
   studied the spread of Russian disinformation on major social media
   sites in the year after Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022.

   “It clearly shows that tech companies’ efforts were insufficient,” said
--
   just because of its election on Saturday. The country has become
   fertile ground for Russian influence because of historical ties. Now it
   faces what its president, Zuzana Caputova, described as a concerted
   disinformation campaign.

   Image
   A World War II monument outside Ladomirova, Slovakia. The country, with
--
   influence. Credit...Akos Stiller for The New York Times

   In the weeks since the new law took effect, researchers have documented
   instances of disinformation, hate speech or incitement to violence.
   Many stem from pro-Kremlin accounts, but more are homegrown, according
   to Reset.

--
   Russia.

   Facebook shut down the account of one of SMER’s candidates, Lubos
   Blaha, in 2022 for spreading disinformation about Covid. Known for
   inflammatory comments about Europe, NATO and L.G.B.T.Q. issues, Mr.
   Blaha remains active in Telegram posts, which SMER reposts on its
   Facebook page, effectively circumventing the ban.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-31">
<text>
   #alternate disinformation Researchers Fret About Fallout From Judge’s
   Order

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
--

   Today’s Paper

   Media|disinformation Researchers Fret About Fallout From Judge’s Order
   chers-judge-restrictions.html

   Advertisement
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

disinformation Researchers Fret About Fallout From Judge’s Order

   They said a restriction on government interaction with social media
   companies could impede efforts to curb false claims about vaccines and
--
   An audience in an auditorium listens to Barack Obama speak from behind
   a lectern on a stage.
   A federal judge’s decision specifically named some research
   President Barack Obama spoke about disinformation at Stanford last
   year.Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times
   Tiffany Hsu Stuart A. Thompson

--
   curb harmful content.

   Alice E. Marwick, a researcher at the University of North Carolina at
   Chapel Hill, was one of several disinformation experts who said on
   Wednesday that the ruling could impede work meant to keep false claims
   about vaccines and voter fraud from spreading.

   The order, she said, followed other efforts, largely from Republicans,
   that are “part of an organized campaign pushing back on the idea of
   disinformation as a whole.”

   Judge Terry A. Doughty granted a preliminary injunction on Tuesday,
   saying the Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal
--
   remove content. Instead, they said, the government has historically
   notified companies about potentially dangerous messages, like lies
   about election fraud or misleading information about Covid-19. Most
   misinformation or disinformation that violates social platforms’
   policies is flagged by researchers, nonprofits, or people and software
   at the platforms themselves.

--
   tanks.

   Their peers said such stipulations could dissuade younger scholars from
   pursuing disinformation research and intimidate donors who fund crucial
   grants.

   Bond Benton, an associate communication professor at Montclair State
   University who studies disinformation, described the ruling as “a bit
   government’s relationship with social media platforms, he said, but
   carried a message that misinformation qualifies as speech and its
   removal as the suppression of speech.
--
   In recent years, platforms have relied more heavily on automated tools
   and algorithms to spot harmful content, limiting the effectiveness of
   complaints from people outside the companies. Academics and
   anti-disinformation organizations often complained that platforms were
   unresponsive to their concerns, said Viktorya Vilk, the director for
   digital safety and free expression at PEN America, a nonprofit that
   supports free expression.
--
   individual cases,” she said. “They are less comfortable ignoring the
   government.”

   Several disinformation researchers worried that the ruling could give
   cover for social media platforms, some of which have already scaled
   back their efforts to curb misinformation, to be even less vigilant
   before the 2024 election. They said it was unclear how relatively new
--
   need to update rules governing social media platforms’ liability. The
   ruling on Tuesday cited the center as having delivered a presentation
   to the surgeon general’s office about its 2021 report on online
   anti-vaccine activists, “The disinformation Dozen.”

   “It’s bananas that you can’t show a nipple on the Super Bowl but
   Facebook can still broadcast Nazi propaganda, empower stalkers and
   harassers, undermine public health and facilitate extremism in the
   United States,” Mr. Ahmed said. “This court decision further
   exacerbates that feeling of impunity social media companies operate
   under, despite the fact that they are the primary vector for hate and
   disinformation in society.”

   Tiffany Hsu is a tech reporter covering misinformation and
   disinformation. More about Tiffany Hsu

   Stuart A. Thompson is a reporter on the Technology desk covering online
   information flows. More about Stuart A. Thompson
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 14 of
   the New York edition with the headline: disinformation Researchers Fret
   About Fallout From Judge’s Order. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper |
   Subscribe
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-32">
<text>
   #alternate China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow disinformation, U.S.
   Says

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
--

   Today’s Paper

   Technology|China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow disinformation, U.S.
   Says
   tate-department.html

--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow disinformation, U.S. Says

   The accusations reflect worry in Washington that China’s information

--
   reading “Department of State.”
   The State Department reports that China is using various methods,
   including buying stakes in media organizations and using social media,
   to spread propaganda.Credit...Joshua Roberts/Reuters
   Steven Lee Myers

   By Steven Lee Myers
--
   to democratic principles around the world by promoting “digital
   authoritarianism.”

   China not only pushes its own propaganda, the report said, but exports
   digital surveillance tools to police information and people online.
   Although many of the tactics detailed are not new, the report warned
   that they could “lead nations to make decisions that subordinate their
--
   According to the State Department’s report released on Thursday,
   China’s efforts have evolved from a primary focus on promoting or
   defending the country’s political views on issues like Taiwan and Hong
   Kong to one that aims to sow disinformation to discredit the United
   States at home and abroad.

   We are having trouble retrieving the article content.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-33">
<text>
   #alternate Ruling Puts Social Media at Crossroads of disinformation and
   Free Speech

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
--

   Today’s Paper

   Politics|Ruling Puts Social Media at Crossroads of disinformation and
   Free Speech
   rnment.html

--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Ruling Puts Social Media at Crossroads of disinformation and Free Speech

   The case, which could alter how the government battles disinformation,
   is a flashpoint in a broader effort by conservatives to document what
   they contend is a liberal conspiracy to silence their views.

--
   “weekly sync” meetings with Facebook, once emailing the company 16
   “misinformation” posts. And in the summer of 2021, the surgeon
   general’s top aide repeatedly urged Google, Facebook and Twitter to do
   more to combat disinformation.

   The examples are among dozens of interactions described in a 155-page
   ruling by a federal judge in Louisiana, who on Tuesday imposed
--
   After Vivek Murthy, the surgeon general, urged social media companies
   to “take action against misinformation superspreaders” in July 2021,
   the companies took down information posted by 17 accounts linked to the
   “disinformation Dozen,” a group of people who frequently distributed
   false anti-vaccination claims.

   Image
--

   “The public and private pressure from the White House apparently had
   its intended effect,” the judge wrote. “All 12 members of the
   ‘disinformation Dozen’ were censored, and pages, groups and accounts
   linked to the disinformation Dozen were removed.”

   He also described regular meetings between the companies and the
   F.B.I.’s San Francisco field office, where he wrote that as many as
--
   platforms to remove information about the story.

   “The F.B.I. additionally likely misled social media companies into
   believing the Hunter Biden laptop story was Russian disinformation,
   which resulted in suppression of the story a few weeks prior to the
   2020 presidential election,” the judge wrote in his order.

--
   David McCabe covers tech policy. He joined The Times from Axios in
   2019. More about David McCabe
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 1 of
   the New York edition with the headline: disinformation Vs. Free Speech:
   A New Frontier. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
   1119
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-34">
<text>
   #alternate alternate alternate U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian
   disinformation: Pre-Empting It

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Technology
--

   Today’s Paper

   Technology|U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian disinformation: Pre-Empting
   It
   -state-department-campaign.html

--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian disinformation: Pre-Empting It

   The State Department’s Global Engagement Center is taking the unusual
   step of disclosing a covert Russian operation when it is barely off the
--

   People in coats in front of the Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra on a gray day.
   Thousands of believers gathered at the Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra in March. A
   recent article recycling disinformation about the Orthodox holy site
   was an example of an online Russian propaganda campaign in Central and
   South America.Credit...Laetitia Vancon for The New York Times
   Steven Lee Myers

--
   claimed — but because of its source and intended audience.

   State Department officials have linked the article to what they
   describe as a covert information operation to spread Russia propaganda
   in Central and South America by producing articles that appear to

   The operation is nascent, but the department’s Global Engagement Center
--
   a region where Russia has sought to discredit the United States and
   erode international support for Ukraine.

   The center, which since 2017 has focused on combating propaganda and
   disinformation, routinely details Kremlin efforts, but identifying and
   trying to pre-empt a campaign when it is barely off the ground is a new
   tactic. It is one that reflects the realization that false narratives
   are harder to counter once they have already spread.
--

   The companies — the Social Design Agency, a public relations company,
   and Structura National Technologies, an information technology firm,
   both in Moscow — have been identified as sources in disinformation
   campaigns.

   Since July, the companies and their executives have faced punitive
   economic sanctions in the European Union for their involvement in
   disinformation around the war in Ukraine. That includes the creation of
   a news outlet, Recent Reliable News, which produced fake articles
   purporting to be from actual news organizations, including The
   Washington Post, and promoted them extensively online.
--
   influence efforts in Eastern Europe and the Baltics.

   He said it remained to be seen how effective the State Department’s
   effort to “prebunk” Russian propaganda would prove to be. Disputing
   false or misleading information in advance, he added, has worked well
   against specific events that can be anticipated or forecast.

--
   Putin.” More about Steven Lee Myers
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 10 of
   the New York edition with the headline: New U.S. Strategy Against
   Russian propaganda Is to Expose It Early On. Order Reprints | Today’s
   Paper | Subscribe
   106
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-35">
<text>
   Internet
   This article is more than 1 month old

85% of people worry about online disinformation, global survey finds

   This article is more than 1 month old

--
   Tue 7 Nov 2023 07.00 CET

   More than 85% of people are worried about the impact of online
   disinformation and 87% believe it has already harmed their country’s
   politics, according to a global survey, as the United Nations announced
   a plan to tackle the phenomenon.

--
   “overwhelmingly prevalent in all countries, age groups, social
   backgrounds and political preferences”.

   disinformation was overwhelmingly seen as a concrete threat, with 85%
   saying they worried about its influence. Eighty-seven per cent said
   disinformation had already had a major impact on national political
   life and would play a part in 2024’s elections.

   Hate speech was also seen as widespread: 67% of respondents said they
--
   and 91% expected social media platforms to be even more alert when
   democracy was directly in play.

   “People are very concerned about disinformation, across every country
   and social category – age, education, rural or urban,” said Mathieu
   Gallard of Ipsos. “They are especially worried during elections – and
   they want all actors to fight it.”
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-36">
<text>
   abysmally.’ Photograph: Matt Cardy/Getty Images
   OpinionAustralian media

disinformation is setting us on a dark path. We need laws to protect us from
billionaires, bigots, shysters and trolls

   Alice Drury
--
   every single day.

   But alongside the memes, social media platforms are allowing
   disinformation to spread like wildfire, with frightening repercussions.
   Big tech companies make decisions about what content to amplify, and
   thus have a huge degree of power over public discourse. With that power
   comes a responsibility to prevent the spread of misinformation and
   disinformation. Right now, they’re failing abysmally.

   In Australia, as we’re seeing across the globe, disinformation is being
   used as a powerful weapon by far-right groups to gain public support
   for regressive movements that want to wind back human rights.
   Labor to overhaul misinformation bill after objections over freedom of
   speech
   Read more

   Most recently, disinformation was used in the referendum to sow
   confusion and undermine support for the voice to parliament. During the
   campaign, racism and fearmongering was rife on social media platforms,
   and amplified on television, radio and newspapers by traditional media.

   disinformation targets people’s fears and anxieties to recruit them to
   extremist ideologies, and polarises our communities for political or
   financial gain. Once unleashed, it travels seamlessly across social
   media, between newspapers, talkback radio and messaging apps.

   disinformation is extremely lucrative for digital platforms like Meta
   and X (formerly Twitter) and their multibillionaire owners.
   disinformation captures our attention and guarantees our engagement
   disinformation isn’t accidental – it’s incentivised by the tech giants’
   business models. And yet we have no laws to stop this – or even uncover
   it.
       newsletters for your daily news roundup
--
   In Europe, lawmakers have responded by introducing the Digital Services
   Act, which requires large social media companies to undertake annual
   risk assessments, including the foreseeable impact on people’s human
   rights, with respect to disinformation spread through their algorithms
   and recommender systems. Social media companies must put into place
   reasonable, proportionate and effective mitigation measures for any
   risks identified, and these measures are overseen by a regulator.
--

   For the past few months, the Albanese government has been consulting
   widely on an exposure draft of a bill to take its first step towards
   curbing misinformation and disinformation on social media.

   The combating misinformation and disinformation bill would empower the
   Australian Communications and Media Authority to oversee the degree to
   which social media companies comply with their own codes of conduct
   and, where they fail, enforce them. The government’s first draft needs
   work – there are issues with what’s regarded as disinformation, for
   concerns raised, and the proposal as a whole is hardly radical – it
   gives great deference to social media platforms and doesn’t go nearly
   as far as the more robust European model.
--
   Predictably, the proposal has sparked outrage from the Liberal party –
   confected, because it was originally their idea – and the likes of News
   Corp, the Australian Christian Lobby and Advance Australia. The draft
   bill, ironically, has been the subject of disinformation: Advance
   Australia (which faced a number of controversies for spreading
   disinformation in the 2022 election and voice referendum) have
   described it as creating a “Ministry of Truth” seeking to control
   Australians.
   skip past newsletter promotion
--
   after newsletter promotion

   Freedom of speech is precious and must be protected in any proposal to
   regulate disinformation. But that’s not what this outrage is about. If
   it were, the Liberal party, News Corp and Advance Australia would be
   advocating for amendments to the bill, but supporting its intent.
   Instead, they’re asking for it to be “ripped up”.
--
   and lie to the public, to win votes and wind back human rights. We must
   not let them win.

   Unregulated disinformation, incentivised by the profit motives of big
   tech companies, is wreaking havoc on our democracy. It is making the
   world a much more hostile and scarier place for Aboriginal and Torres
   Strait Islander people, transgender people, migrant communities and
--
   volatile.

   We need parliament to step in and pass laws that will protect our right
   to freedom of speech, while also shining a light on how disinformation
   is spread, and by whom. We then need social media companies to change
   the way they do business, so they’re no longer biased toward promoting
   hate speech and disinformation. We need users to have much more control
   profiled.

   Until we do, our human rights gains will continue to be unwound by
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-37">
<text>
   Michelle Rowland speaking at a lectern
   Communications minister Michelle Rowland wants Acma to have ‘new
   information-gathering and record-keeping powers’ to monitor digital
   platforms efforts to fight disinformation. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP
   Communications minister Michelle Rowland wants Acma to have ‘new
   information-gathering and record-keeping powers’ to monitor digital
   platforms efforts to fight disinformation. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP
   Australian politics
   Explainer

Why is Labor’s bill on combatting disinformation so controversial?

   Coalition is ringing alarm bells about legislation, despite it
   containing many Morrison-era proposals. But they’re not alone in their
--
   @amyremeikis
   Sun 1 Oct 2023 01.00 CESTLast modified on Sun 1 Oct 2023 03.32 CEST

   It’s been designed to combat misinformation and disinformation on
   digital platforms, but the Combatting Misinformation and disinformation
   bill exposure draft has unleashed a flurry of controversy, and its fair
   share of misinformation.

--
   The communications minister, Michelle Rowland, said: “Acma will be
   given new information-gathering and record-keeping powers to create
   transparency around efforts by digital platforms to respond to
   misinformation and disinformation on their services, while balancing
   the right to freedom of expression so fundamental to democracy.”
   ‘Trumpian era’ of disinformation makes voice yes campaign job more
   difficult, Megan Davis says
   Read more

   Under the proposal, Acma would be given the powers to register an
   enforceable industry code if the platform’s self-regulation measures
   “prove insufficient in addressing the threat posed by misinformation
   and disinformation”.

   Importantly, the bill does not give Acma any “take down” powers. It
   cannot order the removal of a post. Instead, if concerns are raised, it
--
   consumers”. In its final report in 2019, the ACCC recommended a
   “digital platforms code to address the risk of deliberately misleading
   and harmful news” including “appropriate responses” to address
   disinformation and “mal-information”.

   A voluntary code of conduct was drawn up by some of the major platforms
   in response and adopted by Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Twitter,
   TikTok, Redbubble, Apple and Adobe in 2021. Acma was given the job of
   keeping an eye on how the platforms upheld the code. That same year,
   the watchdog reported to the Morrison government its concerns over the
   rise of disinformation and misinformation online and recommended
   beefing up the code.
   Indigenous voice – video
   00:02:19
--
   Commission and the Australian Law Council.

   Those concerns are largely centred around what they say are the broad
   definitions of disinformation and misinformation in the bill.

   Content could be considered misinformation if it’s “false, misleading
   cause or contribute to serious harm”. disinformation includes a similar
   definition but with the added clause of addressing whether the person
   content intends that the content deceive another person”.
   Politics with Amy Remeikis – video
--
   for themselves.

   We don’t know what the final definitions of “misinformation” or
   “disinformation” will be.

   The University of Technology Sydney submitted to the inquiry that it
   believed some of the concerns to be “overblown” but accepted there was
   legitimate concern about the enlarged role for Acma.

   It proposed “limiting Acma’s information gathering powers to ‘measures
   implemented to prevent or respond’ to mis- and disinformation … thereby
   removing any possibility that Acma could indirectly influence decisions

Is it the end of the world?
--
   amplified by platforms”.

   The Coalition’s 2022 election platform included a promise to create
   “stronger laws to combat harmful disinformation and misinformation
   enforcement powers”. It now calls the legislation seeking to do that an
   “absolute disgrace”.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-38">
<text>
   Elon Musk
   This article is more than 1 month old

EU warns Elon Musk over ‘disinformation’ on X about Hamas attack

   This article is more than 1 month old

--
   Wed 11 Oct 2023 00.14 CESTFirst published on Tue 10 Oct 2023 21.33 CEST

   The EU has issued a warning to Elon Musk over the alleged
   disinformation about the Hamas attack on Israel, including fake news
   and “repurposed old images”, on X, which was formerly known as Twitter.

   The letter arrives less than two months after sweeping new laws
--

   Breton reminded Musk that he needed to have “proportionate and
   effective mitigation measures to tackle the risks to public security
   and civic discourse stemming from disinformation”.

   -letter-to-elon-musk/?embed=1

--

   “Following the terrorist attacks carried out by Hamas against Israel,
   we have indications your platform is being used to disseminate illegal
   content and disinformation in the EU,” wrote Breton.

   “Public media and civil society organisations widely report instances
   in the EU, such as repurposed old images of unrelated armed conflicts
--
   Musk quit a voluntary code of practice set up by the EU earlier this
   year to enable social media companies to put in place systems to comply
   with the new laws. Facebook, Google, TikTok and other companies are
   participating in the code of practice and are removing disinformation
   under the new rules.

   He responded to Breton on X saying: “Please list the violations you
--
   users, but there is an appeal process for consumers.

   There are concerns in Brussels that Twitter is not responding within 24
   hours to complaints about disinformation or other illegal content such
   as hate speech within the required time.

   Breton asked Musk to “urgently ensure that your systems are effective”
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-39">
<text>
   TikTok
   This article is more than 1 month old

TikTok says it has acted to curb disinformation amid Israel-Hamas war

   This article is more than 1 month old

--
   @jjpjolly
   Sun 15 Oct 2023 15.53 CESTLast modified on Thu 19 Oct 2023 22.49 CEST

   TikTok has said it has assigned more people to combat disinformation on
   its platform after the attack on Israel by Hamas after the European
   Union chastised the social media company.

--
   situation”.

   The EU on Friday said it has opened an investigation into X, formerly
   called Twitter, over disinformation related to the conflict, while it
   also reprimanded Facebook’s owner, Meta.

   The EU’s commissioner for industry, Thierry Breton, on Thursday wrote
--
   within 24 hours.

     #TikTok has a particular obligation to protect children &amp; teenagers
     from violent content &amp; terrorist propaganda —as well as death
     challenges &amp; potentially life-threatening content.#DSA sets out very
     clear obligations TikTok must comply with.
     Letter to TikTok CEO Shou Zi Chew⤵️ pic.twitter.com/J1tpVzXaYR
     — Thierry Breton (@ThierryBreton) October 12, 2023

   Breton said the EU had seen “indications that TikTok is being used to
   disseminate illegal content and disinformation in the EU.”

   TikTok had a particular responsibility to protect children and
   teenagers from graphic and distressing content such as videos of
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-4">
<text>



US warns of Chinese disinformation. China says that’s disinformation

   By Mengchen Zhang, Teele Rebane and Heather Chen, CNN
   2 minute read
--
   CNN  —

   A US State Department report that accuses the Chinese government of
   expanding disinformation efforts is “in itself disinformation,”
   Beijing’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs claimed Saturday.

   The ministry shot back after the State Department issued a striking
   report this week in which it accused the Chinese government of
   expanding efforts to control information and to disseminate propaganda
   and disinformation that promotes “digital authoritarianism” in China
   and around the world.

   The US report, issued by the Global Engagement Center on Thursday,
--

   It also underlined US concerns about China as a main military
   competitor and key rival in the battle over ideas and global
   disinformation.
   The Chinese flag flutters in Tiananmen Square, after the sacking of
   politician Bo Xilai from the countries powerful Politburo, in Beijing
   the sacking of politician Bo Xilai from the countries powerful
--
   Two days later, China hit back.

   “The relevant center of the US State Department which concocted the
   report is engaged in propaganda and infiltration in the name of ‘global
   engagement’ – it is a source of disinformation and the command center

   Referring to wars in Iraq and Syria as well as US reports alleging
   human rights abuses in China’s Xinjiang as examples, the ministry
   claimed that the US is “an ‘empire of lies’ through and through.”

   “No matter how the US tries to pin the label of ‘disinformation’ on
   through the US’s ugly attempt to perpetuate its supremacy by weaving
   lies into ‘emperor’s new clothes’ and smearing others,” the ministry
   said.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-40">
<text>
   X
   This article is more than 2 months old

EU warns Elon Musk after Twitter found to have highest rate of disinformation

   This article is more than 2 months old

   Musk is told his platform, now known as X, must comply with new laws
   designed to combat fake news and Russian propaganda


   Lisa O'Carroll in Brussels
--
   Tue 26 Sep 2023 13.26 CESTFirst published on Tue 26 Sep 2023 12.29 CEST

   The EU has issued a warning to Elon Musk to comply with sweeping new
   laws on fake news and Russian propaganda, after X – formerly known as
   Twitter – was found to have the highest ratio of disinformation posts

   The report analysed the ratio of disinformation for a new report laying
   bare for the first time the scale of fake news on social media across
   the EU, with millions of fake accounts removed by TikTok and LinkedIn.

--

   “Mr Musk knows he is not off the hook by leaving the code of practice,”
   said the European commissioner Věra Jourová, who is responsible for the
   implementation of the new anti-disinformation code.

   “There are obligations under the hard law. So my message for Twitter/X
   is you have to comply. We will be watching what you do.”

   “X, formerly Twitter … is the platform with the largest ratio of
   mis/disinformation followed by Facebook,” she told reporters.

   The 200-page report is an account of the work the large platforms have
   done in the first six months of 2023 to prepare for compliance with the
   new law and lifts the lid on the behind-the-scenes efforts made by
   Facebook and others to crack down on Russian propaganda, hate speech
   and other disinformation.

   “The Russian state has engaged in the war of ideas to pollute our
   information space with half truth and lies to create a false image that
--
   Tiktok removed almost 6m fake accounts and 410 unverifiable adverts.

   Google removed advertising from almost 300 sites linked to
   “state-funded propaganda sites” and rejected more than 140,000
   political advertisers for “failing identity verification processes”.

   Meta, the report says, expanded its fact-checking to 26 partners
--

   It reported that 37% of users also cancelled sharing when notified of
   fake news, a sign the EU says of the value consumers put on labelling
   disinformation.

   The EU is particularly concerned about continued Russian propaganda in
   social media before key elections in Slovakia on Sunday and in Poland

   TikTok, which was recently fined €345m (£300m) for breaching data
--

   She said one of her main messages to the large platforms was to be
   aware of elections, including those for the European parliament next
   year, and the “risk of disinformation”.

   She said the Kremlin propaganda was “a multimillion-euro weapon of mass
   manipulation aimed both internally at the Russians as well as Europeans
   and the rest of the world. And we must address this. The very large
   platforms must address this risk.”

   The war in Ukraine was the most frequent topic for propaganda but the
   platforms also reported hate speech in relation to migration, LBGTQ+
   communities and the climate crisis.

   “I think it is one of the advantages of disinformation, is that they
   are so predictable,” said Jourová, making it easier for factcheckers to
   find.

   On Twitter, she said “disinformation actors were found to have
   significantly more followers than their non-disinformation counterparts
   and tend to have joined the platform more recently than
   non-disinformation users”.
   Explore more on these topics
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-41">
<text>
   Illustration: Mark Harris/The Guardian
   AI and the US electionUS elections 2024

disinformation reimagined: how AI could erode democracy in the 2024 US
elections

   Advances in generative artificial intelligence could supercharge the
   propaganda playbook, experts warn


   Nick Robins-Early
--
   Read more

   Now, as the 2024 presidential election comes into view, experts warn
   that advances in AI have the potential to take the disinformation
   tactics of the past and breathe new life into them.

   AI-generated disinformation not only threatens to deceive audiences,
   but also erode an already embattled information ecosystem by flooding
   it with inaccuracies and deceptions, experts say.

--

   In some ways, these images and ads are not so different from the
   manipulated images and video, misleading messages and robocalls that
   have been a feature of society for years. But disinformation campaigns
   formerly faced a range of logistic hurdles – creating individualized
   messages for social media was incredibly time consuming, as was
   Photoshopping images and editing videos.
--
   accessible to anyone with even basic digital skills, amid limited
   guardrails or effective regulation to curtail it. The potential effect,
   experts warn, is a sort of democratization and acceleration of
   propaganda right at a time when several countries enter major election
   years.

AI lowers the bar for disinformation

   The potential harms of AI on elections can read like a greatest hits of
   concerns from past decades of election interference. Social media bots
--
   question what role artificial intelligence will play in the vote. The
   creation of misleading AI-generated content alone doesn’t mean that it
   will have an effect on an election, researchers say, and measuring the
   impact of disinformation campaigns is a notoriously difficult task.
   It’s one thing to monitor the engagement of fake materials but another
   to gauge the secondary effects of polluting the information ecosystem
   to the point where people generally distrust any information they
--

   But there are concerning signs. Just as the use of generative AI is
   increasing, many of the social media platforms that bad actors rely on
   to spread disinformation have begun rolling back some of their content
   moderation measures – YouTube reversed its election integrity policy,
   Instagram allowed the anti-vaccine conspiracy theorist Robert F Kennedy
   Jr back on its platform and Twitter’s head of content moderation left
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-42">
<text>
   Disinfo black opsTechnology
   This article is more than 9 months old

Revealed: the hacking and disinformation team meddling in elections

   This article is more than 9 months old
       media profiles
--

   A team of Israeli contractors who claim to have manipulated more than
   30 elections around the world using hacking, sabotage and automated
   disinformation on social media has been exposed in a new investigation.

   The unit is run by Tal Hanan, a 50-year-old former Israeli special
   forces operative who now works privately using the pseudonym “Jorge”,
--
   activities and methods but said: “I deny any wrongdoing.”
   distort reality – video
   00:05:19
   'Team Jorge' unmasked: the secret disinformation team who distort
   reality – video

   The investigation reveals extraordinary details about how
   disinformation is being weaponised by Team Jorge, which runs a private
   service offering to covertly meddle in elections without a trace. The
   group also works for corporate clients.

--

   The consortium of journalists that investigated Team Jorge includes
   reporters from 30 outlets including Le Monde, Der Spiegel and El País.
   The project, part of a wider investigation into the disinformation
   industry, has been coordinated by Forbidden Stories, a French nonprofit
   whose mission is to pursue the work of assassinated, threatened or
   jailed reporters.
--
   Show

   The Guardian and Observer have partnered with an international
   consortium of reporters to investigate global disinformation. Our
   project, Disinfo black ops, is exposing how false information is
   deliberately spread by powerful states and private operatives who sell
   their covert services to political campaigns, companies and wealthy
--
   Bengaluru home in 2017. Hours before she was murdered, Lankesh had been
   putting the finishing touches on an article called In the Age of False
   News, which examined how so-called lie factories online were spreading
   disinformation in India. In the final line of the article, which was
   published after her death, Lankesh wrote: “I want to salute all those
   who expose fake news. I wish there were more of them.”

--
   The methods and techniques described by Team Jorge raise new challenges
   for big tech platforms, which have for years struggled to prevent
   nefarious actors spreading falsehoods or breaching the security on
   their platforms. Evidence of a global private market in disinformation
   aimed at elections will also ring alarm bells for democracies around
   the world.
   Tal Hanan.
--
   has come under growing diplomatic pressure in recent years over its
   export of cyber-weaponry that undermines democracy and human rights.

   Hanan appears to have run at least some of his disinformation
   registered on a website run by the Israeli Ministry of Defense to
   promote defence exports. The Israeli MoD did not respond to requests
   for comment.
--
   Given their expertise in subterfuge, it is perhaps surprising that
   Hanan and his colleagues allowed themselves to be exposed by undercover
   reporters. Journalists using conventional methods have struggled to
   shed light on the disinformation industry, which is at pains to avoid
   detection.

   The secretly filmed meetings, which took place between July and
   December 2022, therefore provide a rare window into the mechanics of
   disinformation for hire.

   Three journalists – from Radio France, Haaretz and TheMarker –
   approached Team Jorge pretending to be consultants working on behalf of
--

   What is this undercover footage?

   disinformation operatives work under the radar. To find out more about
   'Team Jorge', an Israel-based unit selling hacking and social media
   manipulation services, three journalists went undercover. They posed as
   consultants, working on behalf of a client in a politically unstable
--
   Who did the secret filming?

   It was secretly filmed by three reporters from media outlets working in
   a consortium investigating disinformation: Gur Megiddo (TheMarker),
   Frédéric Métézeau (Radio France) and Omer Benjakob (Haaretz). The video
   was then shared with more than 25 other media outlets in the
   consortium, including the Guardian and Observer. While the Guardian and
--
   is disputed.”

   Team Jorge also sent Nix’s political consultancy a video showcasing an
   early iteration of the social media disinformation software it now
   markets as Aims. Hanan said in an email that the tool, which enabled
   users to create up to 5,000 bots to deliver “mass messages” and
   “propaganda”, had been used in 17 elections.

   “It’s our own developed Semi-Auto Avatar creation and network
   deployment system,” he said, adding that it could be used in any
--
information
       15 Feb 2023

How undercover reporters caught ‘Team Jorge’ disinformation operatives on
camera
       15 Feb 2023
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-43">
<text>


   House judiciary committee chair Jim Jordan has issued a dozens of
   subpoenas to universities researching disinformation.
   The House judiciary committee chair, Jim Jordan, has issued a dozens of
   subpoenas to universities researching disinformation. Photograph: José
   Luis Magaña/AP
   The House judiciary committee chair, Jim Jordan, has issued a dozens of
   subpoenas to universities researching disinformation. Photograph: José
   Luis Magaña/AP
   The far right

‘A deranged ploy’: how Republicans are fueling the disinformation wars

   Several actions by the far right in the last month could result in a
   flood of conspiracy theories before the 2024 election
--
   conservative voices. It is also the latest in a wider rightwing
   campaign to weaken attempts at stopping false information and
   conspiracy theories from proliferating online, one that has included
   framing disinformation researchers and their efforts as part of a
   wide-reaching censorship regime.
   The Age of Insurrection review: how the far right rose – and found
   Trump
--
   Republican attorneys general in Missouri and Louisiana have sued Biden
   administration officials, the GOP-controlled House judiciary committee
   has demanded extensive documents from researchers studying
   disinformation, and rightwing media has attacked academics and
   involved have faced significant harassment, leading to fears of a
   chilling effect on speaking out against disinformation ahead of the
   2024 presidential election.

   The Republican pushback against anti-disinformation campaigns has
   existed for years, alleging that content moderation on major platforms
   has unfairly targeted conservative voices. Many tech platforms have
   instituted policies against misinformation or hateful speech that have
--
   followed, leading to Jankowicz receiving death threats, having deepfake
   pornography made of her and seeing her personal information released

   The disinformation governance board suspended its operations only a
   month after its debut, in what Jankowicz told the Guardian earlier this
   week was the start of a larger rightwing campaign aimed at rolling back
   checks on disinformation. “They got a win in shutting us down, so why
   would they stop there?” said Jankowicz, who was originally named in the
   Louisiana lawsuit but removed on account of no longer being a
   government official.
--
   the federal government”. The House judiciary committee chair, Jim
   Jordan, earlier this year issued a wide-ranging request for information
   and documents to multiple universities with programs aimed at
   researching disinformation, and has so far sent dozens of subpoenas.

   Among the institutions and officials that Jordan requested emails and
   documents from were the Stanford Internet Observatory, the University
--
   Americans view it as a partisan attempt to score political points. But
   it has nonetheless put pressure on academic institutions and emboldened
   attacks against researchers, including the University of Washington
   disinformation expert Kate Starbird, who told the Washington Post that
   she has faced political intimidation and cut back on public engagement.

   Starbird and other researchers are directly named in the Louisiana
   lawsuit for their role as advisers to a now-disbanded Cybersecurity and
   Infrastructure Security Agency subcommittee on disinformation.
   Starbird, who did not return a request for comment, has previously
   stated that the Republican-led lawsuit egregiously misrepresents her
   work.
--
   Legal experts questioned Doughty’s injunction against the Biden
   administration this week, the Associated Press reported, saying that
   the wide scope of the ruling meant that public health officials could
   be prevented from sharing their expertise. Meanwhile, disinformation
   researchers have stated that Republican efforts to push back against
   content moderation and safeguards against misinformation threaten to
   2024 presidential election.

   Amid the rightwing campaign against content moderation and
   disinformation researchers, numerous social media platforms have also
   been peeling back restrictions. Twitter under Elon Musk, who last year
   engineered the release of some internal communications between Twitter
   and government officials, has hollowed out its content moderation
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-44">
<text>
   False

   Blue-checked users with an active subscription to X Premium continue to
   use the social media platform to spread disinformation about the
   Israel-Hamas conflict.

   Their tactics include recycling old footage and misattributing it
--
   desecrating a church in Gaza.

   Kanthan2030, a verified X user with 110,100 followers who regularly
   spreads pro-Russia disinformation, quoted another post with the same
   footage, falsely claiming it showed an attack by Syrian rebels:

   “Ignorance in US/EU is shocking. Terrorists in the video below were the
--
   deceptive manner with false context.

   These attempts by premium X subscribers to pass off old footage as
   Israel-Hamas war footage fit into a broader disinformation pattern.

   A recent study by NewsGuard, an information analysis company, found
   that blue-checked, “verified” X users had accounted for 74 percent of
--
   almost 70 percent of the time.”

   Subscribers to X Premium have a financial incentive to spread posts
   that go viral, including disinformation. That’s because blue-checked
   users are eligible for ad revenue sharing if they have 500 followers
   and have generated five million impressions in the preceding three
   months.

   Separately, a European Commission report found that the engagement of
   pro-Kremlin accounts spreading disinformation on X, particularly about
   Ukraine, had grown by 36 percent “after CEO Elon Musk decided to lift
   mitigation measures on Kremlin-backed accounts.”

   In September, European Commission Vice President Vera Jourova called X
   “the platform with the largest ratio of mis- or disinformation posts.”


Polygraph.info
       Polygraph.info is a fact-checking website produced by Voice of
       America (VOA). ​The website serves as a resource for verifying the
       increasing volume of disinformation and misinformation being
       distributed and shared globally.
       FOLLOW Subscribe
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-45">
<text>
   but they've taken us down several times."

   Meanwhile, the social media platform X, formerly known as Twitter, has
   been criticized for a surge in disinformation spread on it, according
   to the news website Wired.

   Wired identified video game footage passed off as Hamas attacks, a
--
   taken this weekend, and images of fireworks in Algeria being shared as
   Israeli strikes on Hamas.

   Experts have said they believe the disinformation is a result of
   changes that X owner Elon Musk has made to the platform, including
   firing trust and safety staffers and an algorithm that promotes users
   who pay $8 per month for a premium subscription.

   Musk had directed followers to two sites that analysts say are known
   for sharing disinformation. The X owner later deleted those posts and
   tweeted to users that they should "try to stay as close to the truth as
   possible."

--
Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in Israel-Hamas Conflict
       A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

Kremlin propaganda on Uptick in Latin America
       in Washington, D.C., Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA) FILE - The U.S. Agency
       for Global Media logo at Voice of America, in Washington, D.C.,
       Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-46">
<text>
   information.

   China's goal is to "construct an information ecosystem in which PRC
   propaganda and disinformation gain traction and become dominant," the
   report states. "Unchecked, the PRC's [People's Republic of China's]
   efforts will reshape the global information landscape, creating biases
   and gaps that could even lead nations to make decisions that
--

   U.S. officials said during the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic
   that China was making greater use of social media to spread
   disinformation about the origins of the virus.
   A technician assembles coronavirus test kits at the Evolve
   manufacturing facility in Fremont, Calif., March 26, 2020. The U.S. is
   seeing Russian, Chinese and Iranian COVID-19 disinformation campaigns
   converging, a State Department official says. A technician assembles
   coronavirus test kits at the Evolve manufacturing facility in Fremont,
   Calif., March 26, 2020. The U.S. is seeing Russian, Chinese and Iranian
   COVID-19 disinformation campaigns converging, a State Department
   SEE ALSO:

US Pushes Back Against Coronavirus disinformation

   Just a year later, in its annual threat assessment, the Office of the
   Director of National Intelligence said Beijing would "continue its
--

   "A quick look at its [the report's] summary is enough to know what it
   is about: heightening ideological confrontation, spreading
   disinformation, and smearing China's domestic and foreign policies,"
   Liu said. "We urge the U.S. to reflect on itself, stop framing China
   for the so-called 'information manipulation.'"

--
   "When targeting democratic countries, Beijing has encountered major
   setbacks, often due to pushback from local media and civil society,"
   the report states. "Although backed by unprecedented resources, the
   PRC's propaganda and censorship have, to date, yielded mixed results."

   That assessment tracks with conclusions from Meta, the social media
   company behind Facebook and Instagram, which in August announced the
   takedown of a Chinese-linked disinformation operation known as
   Spamouflage.

   Meta said that while Spamouflage was "the largest known cross-platform
--
   And there are indications that China has become more sophisticated.

   A report earlier this month from Microsoft suggests that Chinese
   disinformation efforts successfully used artificial intelligence to
   produce "eye-catching content."

   "This relatively high-quality visual content has already drawn higher
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-47">
<text>
   Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson

   “To say they [Chinese press outlets and social media users] ‘made up or
   spread disinformation’ is completely unfounded. If anyone was ‘making
   up or spreading disinformation’, it would be The New York Times, not
   them.”
   Source: Chinese Foreign Ministry Press Conference September 18, 2023
   False
--
   claiming the United States military started the fires in a weather
   weapon experiment.

   A large network of pro-China influencers was behind that disinformation
   campaign, The New York Times reported on September 11, citing reports
   by five different organizations.

--
   spokesperson Mao Ning claiming on September 18:

   “To say they [Chinese press outlets and social media users] ‘made up or
   spread disinformation’ is completely unfounded. If anyone was ‘making
   up or spreading disinformation’, it would be The New York Times, not
   them.”

   That is false.
--

   The researchers found that pro-China influencers, falsely citing the
   United Kingdom’s MI6 foreign intelligence service, orchestrated a
   disinformation campaign claiming the U.S. government started the Maui
   fires in a weather weapons experiment.

   One report, published by NewsGuard on September 11, shows that in
--
   addition to Chinese. The accounts also reposted and interacted with one
   another, ballooning the network‘s outreach.
   NewsGuard concluded there is “strong evidence” that Chinese speakers
   were behind the disinformation campaign, and that the first Chinese
   post spreading the claim was published at least two days before the
   first posts in other languages. Many of the accounts involved in the
   campaign only post narratives aligned with those of the Chinese
--
   respond adequately to flooding that brought death and destruction to
   areas surrounding the capital Beijing.

   This is not the first time China has orchestrated a disinformation
   campaign for political gain. Earlier in September, Polygraph.info
   identified a propaganda campaign involving pro-Beijing influencers on
   X, claiming the U.S. blockade against China’s tech giant Huawei had
   failed.
   In 2022, pro-China actors used X to discredit Safeguard Defenders, a
--
Polygraph.info
       Polygraph.info is a fact-checking website produced by Voice of
       America (VOA). ​The website serves as a resource for verifying the
       increasing volume of disinformation and misinformation being
       distributed and shared globally.
       FOLLOW Subscribe
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-48">
<text>
   The experiences of these reporters, climate analysts say, mark the
   confluence of several different forces: the existential threat that
   climate change poses for Earth, a decline of trust in science and the
   media, a rise in disinformation and misinformation, and a surge in
   far-right authoritarianism.

   A 2021 study by the Yale Program on Climate Change Communication found
--
   change journalists are dealing with the additional challenge that comes
   with covering a topic as polarizing as global warming.

   Other concerns include how disinformation affects audiences, and how to
   connect with those who don’t trust science in general.

   There’s so much climate disinformation out there, that Freedman, from
   Axios, said it isn’t worth trying to debunk every piece of it. “We face
   a deluge of sorting through misinformation and disinformation,” he
   said.

   Due to declining trust in media and the polarization of climate change,
--
Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in Israel-Hamas Conflict
       A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

Kremlin propaganda on Uptick in Latin America
       in Washington, D.C., Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA) FILE - The U.S. Agency
       for Global Media logo at Voice of America, in Washington, D.C.,
       Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-49">
<text>
   Close this content
   The Conversation en Español The Conversation en Español

disinformation is part and parcel of social media's business model, new
research shows

   Carlos Diaz Ruiz, Assistant Professor, Hanken School of Economics
--
   fake news and hate speech.

   This is not an accident – social media platforms know they profit from
   the spread of disinformation, while advertisers turn a blind eye.

   disinformation aims to confuse, paralyse and polarise society at large
   for political, military, or commercial purposes through orchestrated
   campaigns to strategically spread deceptive or manipulative media
   content. On social media, disinformation tools include bots, deep
   fakes, fake news and conspiracy theories.

   Up to now, most disinformation research has focused on how the system
   is abused by national interests and authoritarian leaders. My research
   shows that disinformation is, in fact, a likely and predictable outcome

A business model that rewards engagement

--

   Leer más: I watched hundreds of flat-Earth videos to learn how
   conspiracy theories spread – and what it could mean for fighting
   disinformation

Digital marketing and disinformation

   Digital marketing is a commercial practice by which firms create value
   influencers, pay-per-click adverts, affiliate programs, and ordinary
--
   ad tech firms operate without accountability or oversight, so when a
   brand pays an ad tech firm to place their ads, they also outsource
   their responsibility. A brand might therefore unknowingly end up
   funding disinformation about major global events like the
   Russia-Ukraine war and the Israel-Palestine war. Even after being
   presented with evidence, brands remain silent.

--
   Brands become complicit by remaining silent.

   Policymakers and activists are pushing to reform digital platforms to
   counter disinformation. Most efforts focus on content moderation and
   fact checking, but little attention is being paid to reforming the
   digital advertising market.

   Platforms and ad tech firms must work to reform a market that profits
   from disinformation, though it appears they are often unwilling or
   unable to lead the way.

   Brand managers can use their budgets to hold platforms accountable,
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-5">
<text>
   News

Dozens of FBI sources gave ‘criminal information’ on Bidens that DOJ tried to
discredit as ‘foreign disinformation’: Grassley

   By
   Social Links for Victor Nava
--

   More than 40 confidential sources provided “criminal information”
   related to the Biden family to the FBI — which the Justice Department
   tried to discredit as “foreign disinformation,” according to Republican
   Sen. Chuck Grassley.

   The confidential human sources, managed by several different FBI field
--
   The senator notes whistleblower allegations claimed that the bureau
   received information about first son Hunter Biden’s “criminal financial
   and related activity” in 2020, but “ultimately shut it down based on
   false assertions that it was subject to foreign disinformation.”

   The disinformation assessment was created by FBI Supervisory
   Intelligence Analyst Brian Auten, according to Grassley, who explains
   that the report was used by ”an FBI HQ team to improperly discredit
   negative Hunter Biden information as disinformation and caused
   investigative activity to cease.”

   “The precise basis for how the FBI HQ team selected the specific
--

   The Iowan claims that Auten and the FBI’s Foreign Influence Task Force
   worked to “falsely discredit” the bribery allegations in August 2020 as
   “foreign disinformation” and  “attempted to shut down” further
   investigative steps.

   “It should be emphasized that the basis for trying to shut down the
--
   the Biden family 1023, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western
   District of Pennsylvania coordinated with the U.S. Attorney’s Office
   for the Eastern District of New York in 2020 and found no hits to known
   sources of Russian disinformation,” Grassley wrote, adding that the
   information was transmitted to Delaware US Attorney David Weiss – the
   prosecutor overseeing the DOJ’s five-year-long criminal probe into
   Hunter Biden, which is ongoing.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-50">
<text>
   AI and the US electionUS politics
   Interview

‘An evolution in propaganda’: a digital expert on AI influence in elections

   Nick Robins-Early

--

   Thu 20 Jul 2023 16.00 CESTLast modified on Sat 28 Oct 2023 13.15 CEST

   Every election presents an opportunity for disinformation to find its
   way into the public discourse. But as the 2024 US presidential race
   begins to take shape, the growth of artificial intelligence (AI)
   technology threatens to give propagandists powerful new tools to ply
--

   Generative AI models that are able to create unique content from simple
   prompts are already being deployed for political purposes, taking
   disinformation campaigns into strange new places. Campaigns have
   circulated fake images and audio targeting other candidates, including
   an AI-generated campaign ad attacking Joe Biden and deepfake videos
   mimicking real-life news footage.
   disinformation reimagined: how AI could erode democracy in the 2024 US
   elections
   Read more

--
   in AI influence campaigns and how society is catching up to a new,
   artificially created reality.

   Concern around AI and its potential for disinformation has been around
   for a while. What has changed that makes this threat more urgent?

   When people became aware of deepfakes – which usually refers to
--
     With generative AI it is now effortless to generate highly
     personalized content and to automate its dissemination

   How do you think large language models can change political propaganda?

   I want to caveat that describing what is tactically possible is not the
   same thing as me saying the sky is falling. I’m not a doomer about this
   technology. But I do think that we should understand generative AI in
   the context of what it makes possible. It increases the number of
   people who can create political propaganda or content. It decreases the
   cost to do it. That’s not to say necessarily that they will, and so I
   think we want to maintain that differentiation between this is the
   tactic that a new technology enables versus that this is going to swing
--
   inaccurate content, has a muddying effect on information and trust.

   It’s the scale that makes it really different. People have always been
   able to create propaganda, and I think it’s very important to emphasize
   that. There is an entire industry of people whose job it is to create
   messages for campaigns and then figure out how to get them out into the
   world. We’ve just changed the speed and the scale and the cost to do
   that. It’s just an evolution in propaganda.

     Where we’ve gone with generative AI is the fabrication of a complete
     unreality, where nothing about the image is what it seems
--
   what they amplify and curate.

   What’s the media or the public getting wrong about AI and
   disinformation?

   One of the real challenges is that people are going to believe what
   they see if it conforms to what they want to believe. In a world of
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-51">
<text>
   Press/Getty Images
   The ObserverThe Beatles

Were the Beatles used as propaganda by Greece’s military rulers?

   Junta hoped group’s devotion to the country would help offset global
   condemnation, says veteran journalist
--
   torture and persecution of political opponents. “The regime clearly saw
   them as celebrities who could serve a purpose,” said Tsirigotakis,
   recalling the cat-and-mouse games he and a photographer were forced to
   play with EOT minders tasked with acquiring the perfect propaganda
   snap.

   It appeared to have been lost on the dictators, who would rule with an
--
   journalist’s recently published memoirs has given pause for thought to
   scholars who study the Beatles. Last month the University of
   Liverpool’s Journal of Beatles Studies ran an 8,000-word essay titled
   “Used as propaganda”: The Beatles’ Greek island plans and international
   politics. Its author, Jonathan Knott, is persuaded, after several years
   escape the pressures of recognition and fame, Greek officials were
   equally intent on exploiting that desire to encourage tourism.
--
   seen as a boon. “The colonels were desperate very early on for some
   kind of legitimisation from abroad,” said Alexandros Nafpliotis, whose
   expertise is in the regime era. “The Beatles being in Greece in the
   middle of Beatlemania would have constituted a propaganda coup for
   them.”

   Half a century later, as Greece prepares to commemorate the November
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-52">
<text>

   Information trap … Illustration: Sergiy Maidukov

The disinformation age: a revolution in propaganda

   Information trap … Illustration: Sergiy Maidukov

--
   specially tailored campaigns we might not even be aware of. The more we
   express ourselves, the less power we have.

   This has produced a propaganda model that is very different from the
   20th century. Instead of stuffing an ideology down people’s throats via
   TV and radio, a spin doctor has to tailor different messages to
   different social media groups. A country of 20 million, the chatty
--
   the Commons has always been a rowdy place full of cads and liars – but
   it did, at least, envision an ideal, what I imagined the committee
   meant by “reasoned debate” and “fabric of democracy”. Does it have a
   chance in an age of infinite digital disinformation?

   One reaction from governments, including democratic ones such as
   Germany, France and maybe soon the UK, has been to try to impose
   censorship on “disinformation”. It’s an understandable reaction – but
   the wrong one. It imposes a political logic where censorship is
   normalised again, and so reverses the triumphs of 1989: no wonder Putin
   loves to invoke a German law on “fake news” to impose new censorship at
--
   appropriated by a new generation of manipulators and oppressive
   regimes, are given meaning again.

   This Is Not propaganda: Adventures in the War Against Reality by Peter
   Pomerantsev is published by Faber (£14.99). To order a copy go to
   guardianbookshop.com. Free UK p&amp;p on all online orders over £15.
   Explore more on these topics
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-53">
<text>
   Italy
   This article is more than 3 months old

‘A success for Kremlin propaganda’: how pro-Putin views permeate Italian
media

   This article is more than 3 months old
--
   start taking me seriously,” he told the Guardian. “It’s as if they
   don’t believe that Russia is massacring civilians. The problem is that
   Vladimir Putin has always enjoyed wide sympathy in Italian politics and
   public opinion, with the Kremlin always enjoying effective propaganda
   here.”

   Although Italy’s far-right government is one of Ukraine’s staunchest
   European supporters, Russian propaganda and disinformation permeates
   Italian media – something researchers attribute to politics and
   historical anti-Atlanticism – with openly pro-Russian guests invited on
   the country’s most popular talkshows. A survey released by Ipsos in
--
   wide sympathy in Italian politics and public opinion’

   “Compared to other western European countries, Italy gave
   disproportionate exposure to Russian propaganda, in my opinion simply
   because TV producers wanted to increase their share of certain shows
   with heated debates,” Pugliese said.

--
   Italian TV presenters defend their decision to host alleged Russian
   propagandists or commentators with “different views” on the war as part
   however, they do not seem to care that those defending the Russian
   invasion often spread disinformation and thus help to destabilise
   viewers with baseless claims,” Ciccone added.

   One glaring example is Moscow’s claim – dismissed by the UN, and used
--
   “The result of all this is a great confusion in Italian public opinion,
   which struggles over who to blame for the war, blaming equally Russia
   and Ukraine,” said Pugliese. “This is certainly a success for Kremlin
   propaganda.”
   Explore more on these topics
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-54">
<text>
   The ObserverUkraine
   This article is more than 1 year old

Russia’s genocidal propaganda must not be passed off as freedom of speech

   This article is more than 1 year old
   Peter Pomerantsev
--
   smoothly transferred from a cafe to the metro, where we chain-drank
   coffee and carried on under the sirens and occasional, reverberating
   booms of missile defence. On social media and Russian TV, the grotesque
   propaganda cast of state-controlled media, officials and tub-thumping
   pundits were their usual sadistic selves, celebrating the strikes and
   calling for more attacks on civilians and critical infrastructure.

--

   As the cases of war crimes, crimes against humanity, crimes of
   aggression and genocide pile up against the Russian leadership and
   military, is there a way to hold members of the propaganda machine
   accountable as well? Are they protected by freedom of speech or is
   their role qualitatively different: not mere trumpeters of abhorrent
   cases across the world: from Donald Trump using Twitter to (allegedly)
--
   Perhaps it is for these reasons there have historically been relatively
   few cases that tried to bring propagandists to trial. But how useful
   are these historical examples in the light of how Russia uses
   propaganda in its military operations and domestic politics and in an
   era when technology has completely changed our information environment?
   Together with the lawyers Wayne Jordash of Global Rights Compliance and
   Toby Cadman of Guernica 37, I have spent the last weeks considering
--
   Domestically, state-controlled TV and increasingly online media are
   used to persecute critical voices and help to undermine people’s access
   to alternative sources of information. The Russian media analyst Vasily
   Gatov describes the systemic overloading of disinformation as a sort of
   “censorship through noise”.

     Cadman describes the propagandist as the getaway driver who brings
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-55">
<text>
   The ObserverRussia
   This article is more than 3 months old

Kremlin’s propaganda film about Ukraine war plays to empty cinemas

   This article is more than 3 months old

--
   cinema halls.
   A scene from The Witness showing soldiers on an armoured personnel
   carrier
   A scene from The Witness, a state-sponsored propaganda film.
   Photograph: YouTube

   “I had seen all the other movies already and had a free evening, so
--

   As the Russian authorities ramp up their war rhetoric at home, movies
   like The Witness raise questions about just how effective Russian
   propaganda films actually are.

   “Russians get force-fed propaganda everywhere they go – on state
   television, on the street, in schools and universities,” said Ivan
   Philippov, creative executive at AR Content, the production company of
   the renowned film producer Alexander Rodnyansky.
--
   similarly said that sociologists concluded that Russian society largely
   wished to ignore the war in Ukraine.

   Russia has a long history under Putin of pushing propaganda-style
   films. Shortly after Moscow illegally annexed Crimea, the county’s
   culture ministry financed the movie Crimea which justified the seizure
   from Sergei Shoigu, the defence minister.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-56">
<text>
   difficult? It is, at least in part, because of ads.

   The fossil fuel industry has perpetrated a multi-decade, multibillion
   dollar disinformation, propaganda and lobbying campaign to delay
   climate action by confusing the public and policymakers about the
   climate crisis and its solutions. This has involved a remarkable array
   children” to “Oil pumps life” – seeking to convince the public that the
--
   fuel industry is now misleading the public about its history of
   misleading the public.

   We are experts in the history of climate disinformation, and we want to
   set the record straight. So here, in black and white (and color), is a
   selection of big oil’s thousands of deceptive climate ads from 1984 to
   2021. This isn’t an exhaustive analysis, of which we have published
   several, but a brief, illustrated history – like the “sizzle reels”
   that creatives use to highlight their best work – of the 30-plus year
   evolution of fossil fuel industry propaganda. This is big oil’s PR
   sizzle reel.

Early days: learning to spin
--
   footprint. But first, find out what it is.”

   The truth behind the ads: Big oil’s rhetoric has evolved from outright
   denial to more subtle forms of propaganda, including shifting
   responsibility away from companies and on to consumers. This mimics big
   tobacco’s effort to combat criticism and defend against litigation and
   regulation by “casting itself as a kind of neutral innocent, buffeted
--
   New York Times 2018 algae ad

   The truth behind the ads: Greenwashing confers companies with an aura
   anti-clean energy disinformation, lobbying and investments. The goal is
   to defend what BP calls a company’s “social license to operate”.

   One way fossil fuel companies give themselves a green sheen is to
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-57">
<text>

   Culture &amp; Lifestyle

'Top Gun: Maverick' is a Hollywood war propaganda movie without a war

   While technically an update of the iconic 1980s original, this “Top
   Gun” hews close to an old-fashioned tradition of soft propaganda for
   the military-industrial complex.
   Image: Tom Cruise in "Top Gun: Maverick."
   Tom Cruise takes to the skies (again) in "Top Gun: Maverick." Paramount
--


   But the use of that equipment, even at exorbitant rental rates, is
   essentially priceless from a propaganda perspective.

   It’s also catnip for airplane nerds eager for hints of what Lockheed
   Martin’s long-rumored but as-yet-unreleased SR-72 stealth jet might
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-58">
<text>
   Tech News
   Tech News

How the GOP muzzled the quiet coalition that fought foreign propaganda

   The FBI put a pause on briefings with tech companies due to an ongoing
   lawsuit, adding to a broader breakdown in a system meant to guard
--
   By Kevin Collier and Ken Dilanian

   A once-robust alliance of federal agencies, tech companies, election
   propaganda and disinformation has fragmented after years of sustained
   Republican attacks.

   The GOP offensive started during the 2020 election as public critiques
--
   cybersecurity and has become a favorite target of Republicans, has
   halted its outreach to Silicon Valley, and the Department of Homeland
   Security has shuttered a board designed to coordinate its
   anti-disinformation programs.

   “Some of these efforts really are designed to isolate people and make
   them feel like they can’t communicate with CISA, like they can’t
--
   President Donald Trump and many other conservatives refused to accept
   the loss and lashed out at political enemies. They targeted a number of
   election integrity operations, including the channels that shared
   information on disinformation, often accusing them of censoring
   conservative voices.

   Many of them focused on Twitter and Facebook’s decision to temporarily
--
   2022, the Department of Homeland Security created a board to help
   coordinate its own response to viral falsehoods, prompting outcry from
   conservatives who claimed the government was policing speech. Nina
   Jankowicz, a researcher who studies disinformation and technology, was
   brought in to run the board and quickly became the target of a
   debilitating harassment campaign. Homeland Security shut down the board
   five months later.
--
   Biden’s head of CISA, Jen Easterly, a decorated intelligence official
   who had no prior experience in a public government role, started her
   tenure with optimism that her agency played a major role confronting
   disinformation.

   “One could argue we’re in the business of critical infrastructure, and
   the most critical infrastructure is our cognitive infrastructure, so
   building that resilience to misinformation and disinformation, I think,
   is incredibly important,” she said at a talk hosted by Wired magazine
   in her first year on the job.

   But Easterly, who frequently characterizes herself as nonpartisan, soon
   withdrew the agency from roles that most actively fought
   disinformation. Aside from maintaining a webpage that corrects common
   misconceptions about how elections work, CISA now focuses more on goals
   like protecting poll workers’ physical safety, connecting election
   to do a better job building secure programs.
--

   One current X employee, who wasn’t authorized to speak for the company,
   said they had no remaining faith that the company could handle
   propaganda campaigns.

   “The company no longer has the team, the tools, or the capabilities to
   identify and mitigate these attacks,” they said.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-59">
<text>

   War in Ukraine

Russian propaganda efforts aided by pro-Kremlin content creators, research
finds

   A report from the Institute for Strategic Dialogue found that the
--

   A small network of pro-Kremlin content creators have seen their
   audiences grow dramatically in recent months while spreading
   disinformation about the war in Ukraine, evading social media
   platforms’ efforts to curb Russian propaganda and paving a path to
   Western audiences, according to research published Wednesday.

   The creators are self-described “independent journalists” whose reports
--
   atrocities. Researchers say the on-the-ground reports — which come in
   English, French, German and other languages — have proved effective at
   circumnavigating commitments from European governments and U.S.-based
   social media platforms to stop the spread of Russian propaganda.

   Soon after Russia invaded Ukraine in February, many tech platforms took
   steps to curb the amplification of false Russian narratives.
--
   them globally. Facebook and YouTube have banned Russian
   state-controlled media outlets from advertising. Twitter, Facebook and
   YouTube apply labels and links to fact checks on content that violates
   their policies against disinformation about the war.

   Most of these efforts focused on official Russian government and state
   media accounts. That plan, while partially effective, misses a major
   vector of Kremlin disinformation, according to the Institute for
   Strategic Dialogue, a London-based think tank that produced the
   research.

--
   affiliations, and embassies and consulates,” said Melanie Smith, ISD’s
   director of digital analysis. “It misses a large volume of content
   coming from actors who can reach huge audiences very quickly and spread
   pro-Kremlin disinformation without the state actually having to be
   directly involved.”

   Content creators and social media influencers have emerged in the past
   year as one of the newer avenues for disinformation. Some YouTubers
   exposed a plot to use creators to spread Covid disinformation, while
   The Associated Press reported in March that China’s government had
   found success with its own network of English-language creators.

--
   “considerably higher.”

   Smith said the creators have proven particularly difficult to moderate
   and a powerful tool for spreading propaganda.

   “Some of the disinformation that we see spread quickly isn’t being
   fact-checked because they’re reaching an audience that is deemed to be
   smaller or less important than that reached by RT and Sputnik, but the
   talking points are the same and the evidence being presented is the
   same,” Smith said. “These are independent people who can speak freely
   within the bounds of the policies of the platforms. And sometimes, that
   spills over into incitement of violence, denying war crimes and
   spreading very blatant pieces of disinformation about the context of
   what’s happening and about how people are being victimized.”
   Brandy Zadrozny
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-6">
<text>

Breadcrumb

    1. disinformation and propaganda
    2. Digital space and democracy
    3. News

From Twitter to X, Elon Musk’s transformation from free speech defender to
champion of disinformation

   AFP
   Organisation:
--

   Since becoming Twitter’s official owner on 27 October 2022,
   self-proclaimed free-speech defender Elon Musk has transformed the
   social media now called X into a sanctuary for disinformation.
   Reporters Without Borders (RSF) now regards X as the embodiment of the
   threat that online platforms pose to democracies.

   In the course of a year in which he has humiliated public media and
   censored journalists, the businessman ranked by Forbes as the world’s
   richest person has shattered what was one of the few social media
   bulwarks against disinformation and has instead become one of the
   strongest allies of disinformation producers.

   The most dangerous decisions for access to reliable information have
   included transforming account certification. From a security system
--
   Israel-Hamas war, claims that have been viewed 100 million times.

     “Elon Musk has completed his transformation from free speech
     defender to champion of disinformation. Most of his decisions have
     had the effect of strengthening disinformation producers and
     weakening access to reliable news and information on his platform.
     What with the insults that he personally aims at the professional
     news media and the new anti-information direction that X is taking
     under his leadership, journalists and news media are no longer
     welcome there. Twitter was already an unsafe network for
     information, but X has become disinformation’s stronghold.”

     Vincent Berthier
     Head of RSF’s Tech Desk

   Twitter’s transformation has been political as well as technical. Under
   Musk’s leadership, Twitter ceased to be a signatory to the European
   Union's code of good practice against disinformation, now the code of
   conduct of the Digital Services Act (DSA). The social media company
   also carried out mass layoffs, especially within the “Trust and Safety”
   teams responsible for protecting platform users, including moderation.
   These decisions have necessarily strengthened disinformation’s
   competitive advantage over content that is in the public interest.

   In RSF’s view, X embodies the fundamental problem posed by large
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-60">
<text>

   Culture &amp; Lifestyle

How Buffalo suspect's hateful propaganda connects Black Americans and Jews

   A 180-page document purportedly written by the shooter highlights how
   antisemitism can motivate white nationalist violence — even when Jews
--
   conservatives as mainstream as members of Congress and Fox News host
   Tucker Carlson have referenced this theory in various ways, it is
   really just the more polite version of what has become known as “white
   genocide” propaganda.)

   When these conspiracy theories — which alternate between coded and
   explicit references to Jews — are not being used to justify murder,
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-61">
<text>

Russia Takes Its Ukraine Information War Into Video Games

   propaganda is appearing in Minecraft and other popular games and
   discussion groups as the Kremlin tries to win over new audiences.

   Three video military tanks are aligned side by side in a large plaza
--
   Reporting from San Francisco
   July 30, 2023

   Russian propaganda is spreading into the world’s video games.

   In Minecraft, the immersive game owned by Microsoft, Russian players
   re-enacted the battle for Soledar, a city in Ukraine that Russian
--

   These games and adjacent discussion sites like Discord and Steam are
   becoming online platforms for Russian agitprop, circulating to new,
   mostly younger audiences a torrent of propaganda that the Kremlin has
   used to try to justify the war in Ukraine.

   In this virtual world, players have adopted the letter Z, a symbol of
--
   “The gaming world is really a platform that can impact public opinion,
   to reach an audience, especially young populations,” said Tanya Bekker,
   a researcher at ActiveFence, a cybersecurity company that identified
   several examples of Russian propaganda on Minecraft for The New York
   Times.

   Image
--
   have also sought to encourage enlistments when Russian combat
   casualties were taking an enormous toll.

   “The propaganda mainly seeks to make Wagner and the Russian military
   look cool and menacing,” Mr. Watts told the researchers, who were
   examining extremism in video games.

--
   home or among Russian speakers in neighboring countries, including
   Ukraine.

   “Russian propaganda is trying new things to promote its regime,” said
   Artem Starosiek, the head of Molfar, a Ukrainian consultancy that
   analyzes online threats.

--
   Ministry forces to celebrate Russia Day.Credit...via YouTube

   Molfar’s researchers identified more than a dozen instances of
   pro-Kremlin propaganda in Minecraft, Roblox, the Russian versions of
   World of Tanks and World of Warships, Fly Corp, Armored Warfare and War
   Thunder. Almost all extolled the Soviet victory over Nazi Germany, a
   theme Mr. Putin and his advisers have used to build support for today’s
--
   Joseph Brown, an assistant professor at Thompson Rivers University in
   British Columbia, spent five years teaching about video game
   development in Russia, and said he had seen firsthand the country’s
   commitment to propaganda through video games and other forms of media.

   “They need to get everybody back on board with the war,” Dr. Brown
   said. “It’s another piece of this whole puzzle of constant propaganda,
   all the time. In every single medium they can get to you with, they
   will get to you.”

--
   covers the gig economy, the video game industry and general tech news.
   More about Kellen Browning
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section B, Page 1 of
   the New York edition with the headline: Russia Takes propaganda Into
   Gaming. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe

   Advertisement
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-62">
<text>
   #alternate alternate alternate alternate China’s ‘Absurd’ Covid
   propaganda Stirs Rebellion

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Business
--

   Today’s Paper

   Business|China’s ‘Absurd’ Covid propaganda Stirs Rebellion

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

China’s ‘Absurd’ Covid propaganda Stirs Rebellion

   The use of propaganda in the country has been on overdrive in the
   pandemic, with some Chinese citizens arguing the language has bordered

   A Covid testing booth in Beijing last week. In some cases, Chinese
--
   coronavirus policies.

   China is now one of the last places on earth trying to eliminate
   Covid-19, and the Communist Party has relied heavily on propaganda to
   justify increasingly long lockdowns and burdensome testing requirements
   that can sometimes lead to three tests a week.

--

   “I was extremely angry, panicked and despairing,” said Mr. Xue, who
   works for a financial communications firm. He eventually turned to
   neighbors for help. “The propaganda was resolute and decisive, but it
   was different from the reality that we didn’t even know whether we
   could have the next meal.”

--
   lockdowns, mass testing and contact tracing.Credit...Gilles Sabrié for
   The New York Times

   propaganda has long been one of the Chinese Communist Party’s favored
   tools for social control. But in the Covid era, the government’s use of
   it has been on overdrive. By some estimates, at least 120 Covid-related
   propaganda phrases have been created since the beginning of the
   pandemic.

   When certain terms risked upsetting large numbers of people, officials
--
   to his apartment for two months during a lockdown this year, had grown
   tired of them all.

   “With the Covid control, propaganda and state power expanded and
   after day, Mr. Yang heard loudspeakers in his neighborhood repeatedly
   broadcasting a notice for P.C.R. testing. He said the announcements had
   disturbed his sleep at night and woke him up at dawn.

   “Our life was dictated and disciplined by propaganda and state power,”
   he said.

   To communicate his frustrations, Mr. Yang selected 600 common Chinese
   propaganda phrases, such as “core awareness,” “obey the overall
   situation” and “the supremacy of nationhood.” He gave each phrase a
   number and then put the numbers into Google’s Random Generator, a
   program that scrambles data.
--

   When Mr. Yang uploaded a video of the scene online, however, more than
   1.3 million people viewed it. Many praised the way he used government
   language as satire. Chinese propaganda was “too absurd to be criticized
   using logic,” Mr. Yang said. “I simulated the discourse like a mirror,
   reflecting its own absurdity.”

Spoofing Chinese propaganda:

   Credit...Yang Xiao

--
   His video was taken down by censors.

   Mr. Yang added that he hoped to inspire others to speak out against
   China’s Covid policies and its use of propaganda in the pandemic. He
   wasn’t the only Shanghai resident to rebel when the city was locked
   down.

--
   Hong Kong and international human rights law in the United States. He
   is currently based in Hong Kong. More about Zixu Wang
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section B, Page 1 of
   the New York edition with the headline: China’s Covid propaganda, Often
   Seen as Absurd, Stirs Rebellion. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper |
   Subscribe
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-63">
<text>
   #alternate alternate alternate alternate As Xi Heads to San Francisco,
   Chinese propaganda Embraces America

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Asia Pacific
--

   Today’s Paper

   Asia Pacific|As Xi Heads to San Francisco, Chinese propaganda Embraces
   America
   ca.html

--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

As Xi Heads to San Francisco, Chinese propaganda Embraces America

   After years of anti-American propaganda, the softer, warmer depiction
   users confused or amused.

   Xi Jinping holds behind a steering wheel inside a green and yellow
--
   Published Nov. 14, 2023Updated Nov. 16, 2023
   阅读简体中文版閱讀繁體中文版

   Not long ago, Chinese propaganda was warning that American attempts at
   easing tensions were mere performance. Its state security agency was
   urging people to be on guard against American spies. The country’s
   leader, Xi Jinping, declared that the United States was engaged in a
--
   investors that their relationship with the United States is not a major
   risk factor.

   “propaganda of this type is not meant for persuasion — it is not
   persuasive at all,” Professor Chen said. “It is mainly designed for
   signaling, in the hope that recipients will get the signal and
   implement the proper response, which is investment, or resumption of
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-64">
<text>
   #alternate Russia Intensifies Its propaganda Campaign Against Ukraine

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Politics
--
   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Russia Intensifies Its propaganda Campaign Against Ukraine

   A new push by the Kremlin frames the war as a counterterrorism
   and researchers say.
--
   By Julian E. Barnes
   Oct. 26, 2022

   WASHINGTON — Since before the war, Russia has spread disinformation
   about its need to stamp out Nazism in Ukraine. But in recent days,
   Moscow’s propaganda has shifted, arguing that it is battling terrorism
   and falsely accusing Ukraine of planning a dirty bomb attack as part of
   that narrative.

   The new propaganda, spread on social media and in the news, also
   includes unsupported allegations that the Ukrainian government intends
   to destroy a dam in its own territory, according to European and
   American government officials and independent researchers.
--
   “They seem to have decided on a talking point that this is a
   counterterrorism operation now,” said Kyle Walter, who leads the U.S.
   investigation team at Logically, a tech start-up that helps governments
   and businesses counter disinformation. “Rather than framing this as
   something that’s anti-Nazi or anti-Satanist, you now have a concerted
   effort to frame it as a counterterrorism operation.”

   The counterterrorism narratives, according to American officials, are
   part of a wider propaganda web, all aimed at making Russians feel more
   involved in the war.

   The Kremlin, which has begun calling its fight in Ukraine the people’s
   war, is trying to convince its public that the conflict is not a war of
   choice for Moscow, but an existential fight to save the country.
   Russian officials have used the disinformation about dirty bomb attacks
   to highlight other attacks inside Russia by Ukraine, and stoke anger
   toward Ukraine with the Russian people, according to American and
   European officials.
--
   ratchet up tensions without incurring the wrath of its population or
   further undermining support for Mr. Putin.

   Using disinformation and propaganda is an important part of Mr. Putin’s
   playbook. Before the invasion, Moscow began pushing a variety of false
   narratives about Ukraine. Researchers at Logically and other firms
   tracked an increase in accusations that Ukrainians were Nazis and were
--

   Now, U.S. officials are divided over whether Russia actually believes
   Ukraine intends to conduct a terrorism campaign, including use of a
   dirty bomb, or if the propaganda push is purely an excuse to justify
   tougher action.

   Some American officials said that given other covert Ukrainian action,
--
   Russian officials have convinced themselves, potentially based on
   faulty intelligence, that Ukraine has a dirty bomb.

   And the Russian news media has spread disinformation about a dirty bomb
   attack while discussing actual Ukrainian actions, such as the bridge
   strike, the car bomb and attacks against arms depots in Crimea and
   Russia.
--
   he wrote about security matters for The Wall Street Journal. More about
   Julian E. Barnes
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 10 of
   the New York edition with the headline: Russian propaganda Frames War
   as Against Terror. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe

   Advertisement
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-65">
<text>
   Leer en español

   “Flamin’ Hot,” a movie released this month and recently screened on the
   South Lawn of the White House, is a piece of propaganda designed to
   make Mexican Americans, and Latinos more broadly, feel good about
   seeks to make a person or a group feel good. (See: the genre of
   feel-good movies.) It can even be affirming to see yourself reflected
   in various media.

   But “Flamin’ Hot” is not only a very bad movie. It is a poor piece of
   propaganda. Wittingly or otherwise, it bolsters the white supremacy it
   purports to combat. By depicting a world in which Mexican Americans
   feel good about ourselves, it reinforces the myth of white superiority.
   Winning, in the world of “Flamin’ Hot,” means becoming like those who
--
   people. As Richard exits the restaurant, he doles out generous-seeming
   tips to the wait staff, the busboy and the valet, all Latino.

   “Flamin’ Hot” isn’t even effective propaganda. There can be a
   successful Latino, the movie says, but only one; the people who serve
   him must also be Latino. Almost all the white people in the film are
   cast as villains, but in the end, they are bafflingly worth joining
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-66">
<text>

   Business / Tech

Democrats accuse X of profiting from Hamas propaganda

   Brian Fung
   By Brian Fung and Samantha Delouya, CNN
--
   Washington CNN  —

   A group of House Democrats has accused X, the platform formerly known
   as Twitter, of profiting from Hamas propaganda and misinformation about
   the Israel-Hamas war after reports by independent researchers found
   numerous accounts glorifying the US-sanctioned terror group.

--
   Citing analyses by groups including the Institute for Strategic
   Dialogue, NewsGuard and the Tech Transparency Project, Tuesday’s letter
   said lawmakers were “outraged by the clear indicators that X is
   profiting from the spread of Hamas’s terrorist propaganda — both
   through monthly subscription fees collected from some propaganda
   spreaders, and through ads displayed in replies to posts by both
   Premium and regular accounts.”

--

   “Given X’s major cuts to content moderation staff over the last year,
   it appears that X has willfully permitted, and benefited from, the
   illegal spread of terrorist propaganda,” wrote the group, led by Reps.
   Adam Schiff of California, Daniel Goldman of New York and Jamie Raskin
   social media platforms is wholly unacceptable.”

--
   Yaccarino, who until now has sought to position herself as a cheery
   counterweight to Musk’s flirtation with far-right extremism. The letter
   calls for Yaccarino and Musk to answer by December 1 to allegations
   that X has amplified terrorist propaganda in violation of its own
   policies.

   It comes a day after the Senate Judiciary Committee said it had
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-67">
<text>



Distribution of White supremacist propaganda reached the second-highest level
in 2021, ADL says

   Nicole Chavez
--
   Link Copied!

   Anti-Semitic flyers like this one found outside a home in Miami Beach
   in January were among the type of White supremacist propaganda
   distributed last year, the ADL says.
   Anti-Semitic flyers like this one found outside a home in Miami Beach
   in January were among the type of White supremacist propaganda
   distributed last year, the ADL says.
   From Dan Gelber/Twitter
   CNN  —

   The distribution of White supremacist propaganda in 2021 reached the
   second-highest level recorded since the Anti-Defamation League began
   tracking it, the group announced on Thursday.

--
   and anti-LGBTQ fliers, stickers, banners and posters distributed in the
   United States, the Anti-Defamation League (ADL) said. That’s an average

   While hateful propaganda was reported in every state except Hawaii, the
   states of Pennsylvania, Virginia and Texas had the most reports with
   more than 300 documented incidents each, according to the report.

   The ADL began publishing its data on White supremacist propaganda
   distribution in 2016.
   COLLEYVILLE, TEXAS - JANUARY 16: A law enforcement vehicle sits near
   the Congregation Beth Israel synagogue on January 16, 2022 in
--
   forcing Jewish Americans to be more vigilant

   In its report released Thursday, the ADL noted there was an increase in
   the number of incidents involving propaganda targeting Jewish
   institutions or including overt anti-Semitic language. There were 352
   documented cases last year, compared to 277 in 2020, the ADL said.

--
   language being distributed in several other states.

   Jonathan Greenblatt, the CEO of the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), said
   White supremacists are resorting more frequently to hate propaganda as
   a tactic to spread their noxious ideas and recruit new membership.

   There were at least 38 White supremacist groups involved in
   distributing propaganda but the ADL attributed 91% of the activity to
   three groups – Patriot Front, the New Jersey European Heritage
   Association and Folkish Resistance Movement.

--
   now,” Greenblatt said.

   There has been an increase in domestic extremist activity in recent
   years with the use of propaganda rising to a “historic level” in 2020.

   Oren Segal, vice president of ADL’s Center on Extremism warned
   communities across the country to be prepared because hateful
   propaganda “is more coordinated than ever before” and is “often
   incubated and amplified online.”

   Related
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-68">
<text>
   being a neo-Nazi. Then Elon Musk got involved
   Something isn't loading properly. Please check back later.

I spent an entire day watching Russia’s propaganda network. Here’s the warped
reality I saw presented to viewers

   Oliver Darcy
--

   RS A block 1 panel
   Video Ad Feedback
   Experts say Putin is losing the 'propaganda war'
   04:44 - Source: CNN
   Media 16 videos
   RS A block 1 panel
   Video Ad Feedback
   Experts say Putin is losing the 'propaganda war'
   04:44
   Now playing
   - Source: CNN
--

   RT is being choked from public discourse now that Russia has invaded
   Ukraine and its role in promoting the Kremlin’s dishonest talking
   points has been exposed. But the outlet’s propaganda aired across the
   world unfettered for years and years, coloring the minds of untold
   numbers of people, many who distrust western news organizations. It’s a
   shame that it takes a war to get corporations to realize that the
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-69">
<text>



Newly declassified US intel claims Russia is laundering propaganda through
unwitting Westerners

   Katie Bo Lillis
--
   Washington CNN  —

   Russian intelligence is operating a systematic program to launder
   pro-Kremlin propaganda through private relationships between Russian
   declassified US intelligence.

   US intelligence agencies believe that the Russian Federal Security
--
   CNN has reached out to Grigoriev.

   The official stressed that the Western voices that eventually became
   mouthpieces for Russian propaganda were almost certainly unaware of the
   role they were playing.

   “At the end of the day, this unwitting target is disseminating Russian
   influence operation, Russian propaganda to their target public,” the US
   remain unaware who is essentially seeding these narratives.”

   The intelligence provides several examples of Russian civilian
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-7">
<text>
   PodcastPodcast, The Take
   News|Israel-Palestine conflict

The Take: Censorship and disinformation – the online war on Gaza

   As Palestinians are censored and disinformation spreads rapidly, how is
   the internet steering the Gaza conflict?
   Women use social media to support Palestinian protests at the
   Israel-Gaza border, in Gaza City April 14, 2018. Picture taken April
--
   to tell their stories under the Israeli occupation and blockade. But
   censorship and account suspensions threaten that outlet. As the war on
   Gaza escalates, social media companies have tightened their grip
   further. This is mixed with the rapid spread of disinformation and
   conflicting narratives like those about the deadly blast at the al-Ahli
   Arab Hospital in Gaza. So how far is disinformation and censorship
   steering the conflict?

Keep reading
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-70">
<text>

   Press Freedom

Russian propaganda Presents Fringe Views in US as Mainstream

   November 22, 2023 3:48 PM

--
   Share


   Russian propaganda Presents Fringe Views in US as Mainstream

   share

--
   ideals in Congress.

   Extremes of the political spectrum are wrapped into Russian
   disinformation efforts to both amplify issues and lend an air of
   legitimacy to anti-Western and anti-Ukrainian narratives, said Nina
   Jankowicz, vice president of the Centre for Information Resilience and
   a former disinformation chief under the Biden administration.

   “We see Russia identifying individuals on the left or right of the
   political spectrum who might already be critics of NATO, critics of
--
   references spiked following the full-scale invasion.

   The key narratives of Carlson selected by Soloviev and Russian
   propaganda channels include the conservative pundit’s false claims that
   Christians in Ukraine are persecuted, that America’s white population
   is oppressed and Tucker’s characterization of some U.S. media coverage

--
   between the Russian and U.S. organizations, she said.

   Jankowicz said that while she was in her role on the U.S.
   disinformation Governance Board, American right-wing media outlets
   falsely characterized the board’s role as being to censor Americans.

   “This was absolutely not true, and within a couple of days after that,
   we saw [the same report] on Russian Channel One with the same quotes,
   the same pictures, the same narratives overarching,” Jankowicz said.

   The disinformation governance board — formed by the U.S. Homeland
   Security Department to counter misinformation — was disbanded after

   Featuring statements from American figures and media outlets lends a
--
   Dominik Stecula, an assistant professor of political science at
   Colorado State University who focuses on political polarization, has
   seen similar trends. Stecula said the commentator Carlson has repeated
   Russian propaganda narratives on his TV show.

   But Carlson’s departure from Fox in April, along with a shift in media
   attention to other news stories such as the Israeli-Hamas conflict,
--

   Another aspect that unites some far-left and far-right political actors
   is populism, Stecula said. “They were repeating some of the Russian
   propaganda about Ukraine, about politicians in Ukraine, like President

   The academic said that far-right actors in the U.S. root their
   narratives primarily in the idea of America-first nationalism, while
--
Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in Israel-Hamas Conflict
       A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

Kremlin propaganda on Uptick in Latin America
       in Washington, D.C., Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA) FILE - The U.S. Agency
       for Global Media logo at Voice of America, in Washington, D.C.,
       Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-71">
<text>

   Press Freedom

disinformation, Censorship, Trigger Global Retreat of Press Freedom

   May 03, 2022 2:50 AM update May 03, 2022 1:27 PM

   propaganda a Global Threat to Free Media
   please wait
   Embed share

propaganda a Global Threat to Free Media

   Embed share
   The code has been copied to your clipboard.
--
   Share


   disinformation, Censorship, Trigger Global Retreat of Press Freedom

   share

   washington —

   Led by the Kremlin's example, a global rise in disinformation and
   propaganda is having a disastrous effect on independent news around the
   world, a new report finds.

   In its 2022 World Press Freedom Index released Tuesday, the Paris-based
   Reporters Without Borders (RSF) said Russia's invasion of Ukraine has
   contributed vastly to the spread of fake news and propaganda.

   The journalism watchdog group said its findings are worrying, as they
   show deep divisions among media within countries and between countries
--
   Now, the index classifies a record 28 countries as "having very bad
   media freedom." That group includes China, which is exporting
   censorship beyond its borders while also amplifying the Kremlin's
   propaganda on Russia's devastating war against Ukraine.
   World Press Freedom Index 2022 by countries and territories, according
   to Reporters Without Borders
   World Press Freedom Index 2022 by countries and territories, according
--
   shut down or move outside Russia to continue operating.

   With independent voices absent, experts say, the Russian government has
   been able to flood state-run airwaves with propaganda that downplays
   the war and spreads false or misleading justifications for the
   Kremlin's invasion.

--

   Across Africa, laws criminalizing online journalism have dealt a new
   blow to the right to information, RSF said, while the spread of rumors,
   propaganda, and disinformation has contributed to undermine access to
   quality information.

   In Ethiopia, the war in the Tigray region, with its communication
--
Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in Israel-Hamas Conflict
       A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

Kremlin propaganda on Uptick in Latin America
       in Washington, D.C., Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA) FILE - The U.S. Agency
       for Global Media logo at Voice of America, in Washington, D.C.,
       Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-72">
<text>

   Africa

Can Civil Society and Private Organizations Combat Russian propaganda in
Africa?

   September 18, 2023 9:41 AM
--
   Share


   Can Civil Society and Private Organizations Combat Russian propaganda
   in Africa?

   share

   WASHINGTON —

   As Russia makes significant gains in its disinformation campaigns in
   Africa, experts say civil society groups and private organizations may
   hold the key to counter such propaganda.

   Since Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine two years ago, analysts say the
   Kremlin has been using disinformation spread through social media to
   court other nations as it faces global isolation.

   Dan Whitman, a foreign policy analyst and fellow at Philadelphia-based
   think tank Foreign Policy Research Institute, told VOA that Moscow has
   recently made “tremendous successes” in its disinformation campaigns on
   the continent, exploiting political instability in regions like the
   Sahel and Central Africa, and in nations like Mozambique.

   “I would say (in) two or three years, (Russia) has made the most rapid
   propaganda successes in the history of propaganda,” Whitman said,
   adding “instability is the Garden of Eden for disinformation.”

   Whitman says Russia doesn’t cause instability but takes advantage of
   existing instability, unlike other major powers. He said the difference
--

   Whitman also highlighted the worry of possible Russian interference in
   the 2024 U.S. elections, as in previous elections, emphasizing the need
   for a mechanism to hold the Kremlin accountable for its disinformation
   activities. He suggested empowering civil society groups and private
   European governments, to counter Russian disinformation.

   “I believe that small start-ups, private organizations and community
   groups like debunk.org in Lithuania, should be empowered to counter
   Russia’s disinformation. I hope they have open and transparent support
   from the U.S. government and governments of Western Europe,” Whitman
   told VOA.

   Neil Melvin, director of International Security Studies at the
   London-based Royal United Security Institute, or RUSI, says while
   Russia seeks to advance its propaganda narrative, describing its
   efforts as the “biggest propaganda victory ever,” may be an
   exaggeration — even as Russia takes an opportunistic approach in
   regions with instability, aiming to establish partnerships with
   military groups seeking power.
--
   No media source currently available
   Download

   Fighting disinformation

   Melvin said disinformation is not solely a Russian effort, as China and
   Iran also engage in state-backed disinformation campaigns, which many
   countries struggle to effectively counter.

   “Civil society becomes almost a security asset because they challenge
   the disinformation that sometimes is coming down mainstream channels,”
   he told VOA’s English to Africa Service. “Maybe this is the moment for
   the African Union or some of the regional organizations to try and set
   up their own independent media monitoring organizations to make sure
   that the population can push back on Russian disinformation.”

   According to the Africa Center for Strategic Studies, an academic and
   research program focused on security, in 2022, 60% of Africa’s more
   than 50 documented disinformation campaigns were externally
   coordinated.

   However, the center says, figures of externally driven disinformation
   campaigns in Africa may not be entirely accurate with the growing trend
   harder to trace.

--
   China to “influence Africa’s conversation.”

   “In the past five months, what I have been seeing is a calculative
   spread of disinformation that seems to glorify Russia and the Wagner
   Group as if they’re the only way out to Africa’s problems,” Jonathan
   told VOA. He said he has observed social media users posting
   disinformation-and-misinformation to counter African democracy,
   emphasizing rhetoric for Africa to align with Russia.

   Jonathan said organizations and coalitions should be working to raise
   awareness of Russia’s disinformation efforts on social media.

   “What I have been doing is to assess social media awareness of Russia’s
   disinformation in Africa, and to find out whether Africans are even
   aware of such subtle influences.”

   This story originated in VOA’s English to Africa Service.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-73">
<text>

   Fact Checks

propaganda Campaigners Use 'Pallywood' Label to Accuse Palestinians of
Staging Civilian Casualties

   November 02, 2023 3:53 PM
--
   Share


   propaganda Campaigners Use 'Pallywood' Label to Accuse Palestinians of
   Staging Civilian Casualties

   share
--

   Hybrid warfare in the Gaza Strip continues to escalate both on the
   battlefield and online, with fighting on the ground killing thousands
   and propaganda campaigns engaging millions of social media users.

   After conducting weeks of intense airstrikes on the Gaza Strip in
   retaliation for Hamas killing more than 1,400 Israelis and taking some
--
   rescue operation.

   The same photomontage has been used in a broader Russia-backed
   disinformation campaign to falsely accuse the White Helmets, Syrian
   volunteer rescue workers, of staging atrocities.

   Other recent social media posts shared by rose_k01 and others have
   likewise attempted to claim Palestinians are using crisis actors in
   their propaganda war against Israel.

   For example, pro-Israel posters falsely claimed that Saleh Aljafarawi,
   a 25-year-old Palestinian who has been blogging about the Israel-Hamas
--
   staging atrocities.

   As Polygraph.info previously reported, misuse and misattribution of old
   footage have become a signature disinformation tactic in the
   Israel-Hamas war.

   Polygraph.info has documented several such examples. They include
--

   As is the case with this verification, blued-checked users with an
   active subscription to X Premium regularly use the social media
   platform to spread disinformation about the Israel-Hamas conflict.

   A recent study by NewsGuard, an information analysis company, found
   that blue-checked, “verified” X users had accounted for 74% of the
--
Polygraph.info
       Polygraph.info is a fact-checking website produced by Voice of
       America (VOA). ​The website serves as a resource for verifying the
       increasing volume of disinformation and misinformation being
       distributed and shared globally.
       FOLLOW Subscribe
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-74">
<text>

   Asia

How China's TikTok, Facebook Influencers Push propaganda

   April 03, 2022 2:11 AM

   Clint Watts, president of Miburo, a research firm that tracks foreign
   disinformation operations, works at his desktop at company
   headquarters, on March 15, 2022, in New York.
   Clint Watts, president of Miburo, a research firm that tracks foreign
   disinformation operations, works at his desktop at company
   headquarters, on March 15, 2022, in New York.

   Share


   How China's TikTok, Facebook Influencers Push propaganda

   share

--
   Eileen Gu, an American who competed for China in the most recent Winter
   Games.

   The influencer network allows Beijing to proffer propaganda to social
   media users around the globe. At least 200 influencers with connections
   to the Chinese government or its state media are operating in 38
   different languages, according to research from Miburo, a firm that
   tracks foreign disinformation operations.

   "You can see how they're trying to infiltrate every one of these
   countries," said Miburo President Clint Watts, a former FBI agent. "If
--

   While the invasion was being condemned as a brazen assault on
   democracy, Li Jingjing presented a different narrative to her 21,000
   YouTube subscribers, posting videos that echoed Russian propaganda and
   promoted misleading claims — including that the U.S. and NATO provoked
   Russia's invasion.
   This image from YouTube shows a post from Li Jingjing's YouTube page.
--
   stealthily influence users, including during the 2016 U.S. election.

   In response, tech companies like Facebook and Twitter promised to
   better alert American users to foreign propaganda by labeling
   state-backed media accounts.

   But the AP review found most of the Chinese influencer social media
--
   influencers from a company that identified itself as Hong Kong Pear
   Technology. The email asked them to share a promotional video for
   China's touristy Hainan province on their channels. Pear Technology
   followed up in another email with a pitch for them to post a propaganda
   video that asserted COVID-19 originated from North American
   white-tailed deer, not China.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-75">
<text>

   East Asia

South Korea Court Strikes Down Ban on Anti-North Korea propaganda Leaflets

   September 26, 2023 6:09 AM

--
   Share


   South Korea Court Strikes Down Ban on Anti-North Korea propaganda
   Leaflets

   share
--
   SEOUL, South Korea —

   South Korea's constitutional court ruled on Tuesday the ban on sending
   propaganda leaflets to North Korea was unconstitutional, striking down
   a law passed in 2020 by the liberal party of then-President Moon
   Jae-in, who sought better ties with Pyongyang.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-76">
<text>

   VOA News on Iran

Journalists Charged With propaganda Over Iran Protest Coverage

   November 08, 2022 4:02 PM

--
   Share


   Journalists Charged With propaganda Over Iran Protest Coverage

   share


   Iran on Tuesday charged two female journalists with propaganda against
   the state" over their coverage of mass protests.

   The judiciary announced that the journalists — Niloufar Hamedi and
   Elaheh Mohammadi — are "remanded in custody for propaganda against the
   system and conspiring against national security."

   Both women have been in custody already for more than a month.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-77">
<text>

   News Desk

The Hamas propaganda War

   Across the Arab world, the group is successfully selling its narrative

--
   hostages—including one in which an elderly Jewish Israeli bids “shalom”
   to her Palestinian captor.

   However unpersuasive or ham-fisted such propaganda might seem in the
   West, Ghaith al-Omari—a former adviser to the Western-backed
   Palestinian Authority and a longtime opponent of Hamas—told us that
   such videos had convinced many Arabs that the group’s fighters, unlike
--
   your picture, this might is your might, this flood is your flood, and
   this blessed action is for all of you!”

   A review of Hamas’s propaganda on October 7th makes clear that a major
   the Palestinians of the West Bank. After the news anchor delivered the
   “blessed action” soliloquy, the network cut to a recorded message from
   Saleh al-Arouri, the bellicose deputy chief of Hamas’s political
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-78">
<text>

   Annals of Communications

Inside Putin’s propaganda Machine

   Current and former employees describe Russian state television as an
   army, one with a few generals and many foot soldiers who never question
--


   Six nights a week, Vladimir Solovyov, one of the dominant voices in
   Russian propaganda, gathers a half-dozen pundits for more than two
   hours of what appears to be unscripted political crosstalk. Most recent
   episodes have been devoted to mocking Ukraine and its allies—especially
   the United States and President Biden—and debating Russia’s options.
--
   least some of the Kremlin’s media managers hadn’t known that the
   invasion was coming. Now television is all war all the time; in
   addition to talk shows and newscasts, there are special reports that
   claim to debunk Western and Ukrainian propaganda or to expose the roots
   Patriotic War, Russia’s term for the Soviet part of the Second World
   War. In the past, journalists in television and print media would be
   instructed to pursue specific angles on stories. But people who have
--
   what sounds like discussion, within the narrow space defined by
   authorities. On April 26th, he and Margarita Simonyan, who runs both
   Rossiya Segodnya, a domestic state-news holding, and RT, the
   international arm of the television-propaganda machine, discussed a
   purported plot to assassinate them and several other propagandists that
   had ostensibly been foiled by the secret police a day earlier. Footage
   have found was a pendant with a swastika on one side and a Ukrainian
--
   to have been carried out by Russia’s security service, the F.S.B.; he
   has been in prison for more than a year. “Can you even imagine the
   things he would have done here, if he hadn’t been jailed?” Simonyan
   said. Before I dived into watching Russian propaganda, Lev Gudkov, an
   independent sociologist, told me that television rhetoric was based on
   “ascribing their own traits to the opponent.” It really is that simple.
   Solovyov and his guests, along with the other news anchors, reporters,
--
   people currently employed by a Russian state channel who agreed to
   speak to me directly.)

   I wanted to test my hypothesis—that Russian propaganda is designed not
   to convince its audience that Ukrainians are Nazis and that Russia is
   waging a defensive war but to muddy the waters, to create the
   impression that nothing is true. Does truth exist? I asked. “Truth
--
   with the “Z”—and the word “PRESS” across the chest of his bulletproof
   vest.

   The Russian state and its propaganda machine form a feedback loop.
   Putin watches his own television and quotes it back to itself, the
   television amplifies the message, and so on. Messages can originate
   anywhere along this closed loop. On February 12th, Maria Baronova, a
--
   to write more like it. Twelve days later, Putin announced the beginning
   “demilitarization and de-Nazification of Ukraine.” Baronova couldn’t
   find an instance of the term “de-Nazification” being used by Russians
   propaganda machine had been calling Ukrainians Nazis for years, but
   this word was novel; it had come to her following a fight with a
   Russian-speaking friend in the United States. “I pulled it out of my
   ass for that post,” she told me. “And then, when they were scraping
--
   It’s not an unlikely theory: autocratic ideologies in general, and
   Putin’s in particular, are cobbled together on the fly. Usable words
   and quotable quotes are few and far between—that is, among other
   things, why the propaganda machine makes such extensive use of a couple
   Heaven and about not needing a world in which there is no Russia.
   Baronova’s job was to write and edit neediest-case-type stories to
   raise money and awareness. She didn’t do much, she told me, because she
--
   New Yorker.
   Masha Gessen became a staff writer at The New Yorker in 2017. Their
   latest book is “Surviving Autocracy.”
   More:RussiapropagandaVladimir PutinUkraineMedia

Daily
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-79">
<text>
   Close this content
   The Telegraph The Telegraph

Chernobyl vodka a ‘strange propaganda exercise’, says victims’ charity

   Madeleine Ross
   November 24, 2023 at 4:55 PM·3 min read
--
   fruit and grain grown in the so-called ‘Zone Two’ - HO/AFP/Getty Images

   Vodka produced in the abandoned zone at Chernobyl has been labelled a
   “propaganda exercise” by a victims’ charity.

   The Chernobyl Spirit Company, a social enterprise which creates apple
   schnapps and vodka from fruit and grain grown in the so-called “Zone
--
   in Belarus and Ukraine.

   “To choose to grow them in the area heavily contaminated by Chernobyl,
   it’s to make a point,” adding: “It’s a very strange propaganda
   exercise.”
   Following the explosion in 1986, a 36-mile wide exclusion zone was
   created around the site’s radioactive core - Petr Shelomovskiy
--
   Download our app
   Download app from appStore Download app from googlePlay

   nobyl-vodka-strange-propaganda-exercise-155521940.html&amp;c14=-1]
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-8">
<text>
   More


EU gives Meta and TikTok formal Hamas disinformation deadline

       19 October

--
   Technology reporter

   TikTok and Meta have been formally told to provide the EU with
   information about the possible spread of disinformation on their
   platforms relating to the Israel-Gaza conflict.

   Previously they were given 24 hours to provide answers to the bloc's
--
   X said at the time it had removed hundreds of Hamas-affiliated accounts
   from the platform.

   Social media firms have seen a surge in disinformation about the
   conflict between Israel and Hamas, including doctored images and
   mislabelled videos.

--
   diligent and objective action".

   He later said TikTok "has a particular obligation to protect children &amp;
   teenagers from violent content and terrorist propaganda.

Related Topics
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-80">
<text>
   IN-DEPTH / IN-DEPTH
   GT investigates: Unveiling propaganda campaign by Philippines, Western
   media to defame China, stir up trouble in South China Sea
   By GT staff reporters Published: Nov 20, 2023 10:57 AM Updated: Nov 19,
   2023 09:24 PM
--
   dangerous harassment" are a few of the high-frequency keywords that
   have emerged in recent reports by major Philippine media outlets
   regarding China's justified actions in the South China Sea, an
   indication of an intensifying false propaganda offensive by the
   Philippines.
   The Philippine government has extensively laid the groundwork to aid in
   swaying public opinion, including creating conflicts in disputed waters
   through the use of various "props" and launching strong premeditated
   counterattacks.
   The most iconic bit of fake news material from the Philippine
   propaganda campaign in the South China Sea comes from their "grounded"
   vessel at Ren'ai Jiao. Ren'ai Jiao is part of China's Nansha Island.
   However, the Philippines has "grounded" a military vessel at Ren'ai
   Jiao and attempted to repair and reinforce it in an attempt to
--
   intercepted by the China Coast Guard (CCG). Surprisingly, they then
   approached the CCG patrol ship, resulting in two consecutive collisions
   between the two vessels.
   Following this incident, the Philippines began a series of propaganda
   attacks. The Philippine Presidential Communications Office publicly
   stated on Facebook that Philippine President Ferdinand Romualdez Marcos
   had convened a special command conference of the national security and
--
   claims that the CCG were driving away Filipino fishermen, and recent
   demands to dismantle the floating barriers placed by China, the
   Philippine authorities and local media outlets have continuously
   escalated their propaganda, gradually forming a mature set of arguments
   by utilizing sporadic public opinion attacks, Peng Nian, a scholar at
   China's National Institute for South China Sea Studies, told the Global
   Times.
--
   These recent disputes are actually part of a series of actions taken by
   the Philippines against China's stance on the South China Sea issue.
   These include providing supplies to grounded vessels, inviting foreign
   media outlets to report on the propaganda, and conducting joint patrols
   with the US, Dai Fan, director of the Center for Philippine Studies at
   Jinan University, told the Global Times.
   "The Philippine government aims to establish an image of China bullying
--
   well as undermines the continuity and strengthening of China's
   strategic mutual trust with the ASEAN. At the same time, once fake news
   stirs up nationalist sentiments within the Philippines, it will also be
   Such propaganda theatrics are likely to continue between the
   Philippines and some Western media, but we hope that the Philippines
   will reconsider its stance and exercise restraint, making a genuine
   choice to promote a peaceful resolution to the South China Sea issue,
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-81">
<text>

   News HomeABC News Homepage

   Opposition labels China's denial of sonar incident propaganda

Opposition labels China's denial of sonar incident propaganda

   By political reporter Georgia Roberts
   Posted Tue 21 Nov 2023 at 1:55amTuesday 21 Nov 2023 at 1:55amTue 21 Nov
--
   paganda/103130288

   China's denial that it sent sonar pulses that left Australian naval
   divers with minor injuries has been labelled propaganda by the

Key points:

--
   militaries".

   On Tuesday, Opposition Leader Peter Dutton said China's denial of the
   sonar incident was propaganda and we shouldn't abide it for a second".

   "It's exactly what happens in relation to Japan, in relation to the
   Philippines, and in relation to other countries in the region," Mr
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-82">
<text>

   Antisemitism Exposed

Arizona students allegedly bombarded with Hamas 'propaganda' in lesson
claiming 'terrorist' is offensive term

The Arizona superintendent compared the pro-Palestinian presentation to Ku
--

   close
   Arizona superintendent reacts to high school students being allegedly
   taught Hamas propaganda Video

Arizona superintendent reacts to high school students being allegedly taught
Hamas propaganda

   Tom Horne, Arizona's superintendent, reacted to a presentation at a
   Scottsdale Unified School District high school. He accused it of being
   Hamas propaganda.

   The Arizona superintendent of education is warning all districts in the
   state to avoid using information or collaborating with any Amnesty
--
   white-washed Palestinian terrorism.

   Jewish students were left feeling unsafe at Desert Mountain High School
   in the Scottsdale Unified School after "one-sided propaganda in favor
   spoke with FOX News Digital on background. The briefing on the
   Israeli-Palestinian conflict referred to the Second Intifada, a terror
   campaign which killed hundreds of American and Israelis in suicide
--
   Scottsdale Unified School District Arizona

   A presentation which occurred in the Scottsdale Unified School District
   in Arizona was accused of sharing Hamas propaganda by the
   superintendent of the state.  (Adobe Stock)

   CORNELL PROFESSOR ON LEAVE FOR REMARKS ABOUT 'EXHILARATING' HAMAS
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-83">
<text>

   Fox News Flash

Tom Cotton: Biden campaign is 'desperate,' might use 'Chinese propaganda app'
for votes

Biden weighing using TikTok for 2024 campaign: Report
--
   Published November 19, 2023 12:15pm EST

   close
   TikTok has become a ‘propaganda machine’ for China: Sen. Tom Cotton
   Video

TikTok has become a ‘propaganda machine’ for China: Sen. Tom Cotton

   Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., reacts to China and Iran’s threats to U.S.
   national security and the House’s investigation into Hunter Biden on
--
   probably resulted, in part, from Joe Biden's polling collapse,
   especially among young voters or other core Democratic constituencies.
   That campaign is desperate to do anything, even use a Chinese
   propaganda app to try to offset Joe Biden's decline in the polls. Joe
   Biden's campaign shouldn't do it, and President Biden should sign a
   total ban of TikTok into law next month.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-84">
<text>
   Israel

Israeli university presidents call on colleagues to not fall victim to Hamas'
'destructive propaganda'

'Let’s be clear: Hamas shares no values with any Western academic
institution,' leaders say
--
   Anti-Israel students and faculty at NYU protest the Israel-Hamas war

   "We urge you to delineate the boundaries between constructive discourse
   and destructive propaganda, and promote evidence-based, nuanced
   thinking that challenges simplistic narratives," the presidents added.

   They also reminded the learning institutions that Israeli and Jewish
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-85">
<text>

   Fox News Flash

TikTok can become an enormous propaganda machine for communist China,
Democrat lawmaker reveals

The social media app is a national security threat
--

   A Democratic lawmaker is warning Americans about the shocking power
   China has over TikTok, saying the social media app could become a
   propaganda machine for the communist country.

   "TikTok and ByteDance that owns it, based on Chinese law, has to be
   first and foremost responsible to the Communist Party of China, which I
   believe is a national security threat," Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) told
   "Special Report" on Tuesday. "They collect data from Americans and they
   potentially can manipulate the videos that you see on TikTok, which can
   turn into an enormous propaganda machine for the Communist Party of
   China."

   Skeptics can compare videos Chinese users see on TikTok, which focus on
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-86">
<text>
   Russia

Russian President Valdimir Putin signs law expanding restriction on LGBT
'propaganda'

Russia's new law bans spreading information about gender transitioning to
minors
--
   significantly expands restrictions on activities seen as promoting LGBT
   rights in the country.

   A 2013 law banned what authorities deem to be spreading propaganda of
   non-traditional sexual relations" to minors. The new law expands that
   ban to spreading such information to people aged 18 and older.

   The new law outlaws advertising, media and online resources, books,
   films and theater productions deemed to contain such propaganda."

   RUSSIA ADVANCES ANTI-LGBTQ, ANTI-GENDER SURGERY BILL, CITES US GENDER
   DEBATE AS JUSTIFICATION

   It also broadens the existing restrictions by banning information about
   gender transitions to be spread to minors and bans information deemed
   to be propaganda promoting pedophilia.

   Violations are punishable by fines and, if committed by non-residents,
   could lead to their expulsion from Russia.
--

   A view of the State Duma building, the lower chamber of Russia's
   parliament, in central Moscow on October 27, 2022. The Duma unanimously
   passed amendments toughening a notorious 2013 "gay propaganda law. The
   new law bans LGBT advertising, media, books, films, and theater
   productions. (KIRILL KUDRYAVTSEV/AFP via Getty Images)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-87">
<text>
   #The Vanderbilt Hustler RSS 2.0 The Vanderbilt Hustler RSS .92 The
   Vanderbilt Hustler Atom 0.3 The Vanderbilt Hustler » GUEST EDITORIAL: I
   used to promote Zionist propaganda Comments Feed alternate


   The Vanderbilt Hustler
--
The Vanderbilt Hustler


GUEST EDITORIAL: I used to promote Zionist propaganda

   A Vanderbilt alum shares their journey from on-campus Israel advocate
   to Palestinian liberation activist.
--
   untold atrocities.

   As the trip went on, however, the focus shifted from unbiased education
   to propaganda, although I didn’t realize it at the time. We traveled to
   the Israeli settlement of Almog in the West Bank, where the settlers
   explained their moral responsibility to “take back their rightful
   land.” They did not mention that, according to the U.N. and Amnesty
--
   a kilometer away in Gaza, who lived with that same fear but without any
   bomb shelters.

   After we returned home, the propaganda intensified. We were all offered
   positions as paid interns for TDP, which I eagerly accepted. I started
   hosting collaborative events with various multicultural organizations
   recruiting other people to join the organization. I happily checked my
--
   pressure well-intentioned students into supporting Israel, and
   unfortunately, it worked on me.

   I often feel ashamed of myself for succumbing to the propaganda. I
   should have been more critical, done more research and avoided TDP in
   the first place. I’m embarrassed by how little it took to buy my
   support, how much harm I caused my peers at Vanderbilt and how long I
--
   sleep, but I would not want to live normally in ignorance while my
   siblings in Palestine suffer. Now, I hope to support the Palestinian
   people by sharing my story and shedding light on the powerful,
   insidious nature of right-wing imperialist propaganda.
   “

   I cannot separate myself from their struggle, so I must dedicate myself
--
   It is so easy to fall into carefully set traps and use our power to
   harm and silence others. We must, therefore, remain challengeable and
   willing to challenge others. If our friends and family start
   internalizing and repeating the propaganda of oppressors, we must
   address it and offer education. In turn, we must also surround

   Most importantly, we must value every single life equally. It is true
--
   dug out of rubble, young men who were too shy to kiss each other while
   alive and reporters wearing press vests trying to do their jobs. They
   are not terrorists, and they do not deserve the horror Israel has
   brought upon them. We must all resist the propaganda that would
   convince us otherwise.

   TDP has since merged with Hillel International and is now a part of the
--
   I sincerely hope there are hard conversations happening on campus and
   actions being taken in ways that I have not seen yet. I love the
   Vanderbilt community too much to let it fall into the pits of
   propaganda that I used to spread.
   1
   28

--
   Palestines right to defend itself and Hamas committing a heinous act of
   violence and war are two separate things. What occurred oct 7th was not
   defense. it was a full scale attack. if we are going to talk about
   propaganda, maybe saying hamas is a defense organization would be part
   -3
   Reply
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-88">
<text>

   MENUMENU

Doug Casey on the Use of Children in propaganda

   by Doug Casey
   Use of Children in propaganda

   International Man: Throughout history, governments have always used
   propaganda to drum up support for war. Often, their atrocity propaganda
   features children to get the maximum emotional response.

   For example, during World War 1, the US media whipped up a frenzy by
--
   40 Israeli babies. President Joe Biden repeated the incident. It was
   later revealed not to have occurred.

   These are just a few examples of this propaganda tactic.

   What is your take on all of this?

   Doug Casey: It’s long been said, quite correctly, that “The first
   casualty in war is truth.” Especially when it comes to war reporting,
   you never know what to believe. It’s impossible to separate truth from
   propaganda most of the time. Emotion almost always triumphs over
   reason.

   Americans are particularly vulnerable to emotional arguments because
--
   reasons.

   International Man: Even if the lies are later exposed, it’s often too
   late. It seems the propaganda’s primary purpose is to initiate a war
   urgently.

   What do you think?
--
   Doug Casey: To quote another old aphorism, “A lie can get halfway
   around the world before truth even puts on its walking shoes.”

   With propaganda, it’s important to get your word out as soon as
   possible because, generally speaking, the first things that people hear
   tend to be imprinted on their minds and accepted as the truth.
   Revisions are often suspect, the way “revisionist” history is suspect.
--
   from official sources most, especially if there’s a war going on.

   International Man: How have the internet and social media changed war
   propaganda and its effectiveness?

   Doug Casey: Social media and the internet have created a lot of
   dysfunctions. Among them, everybody’s reality today is primarily what’s
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-89">
<text>

   Register

Chinese propaganda frames Xi's US pivot

   By Antoni Slodkowski and Laurie Chen
   November 16, 202312:31 PM UTCUpdated ago
--
   Chinese leader is capable of managing China-U.S. relations ... he is
   the one who gives instructions to the U.S. and the American leadership

   China's domestic propaganda machine worked overtime to pave the way for
   Xi's pivot, also evident at a dinner with U.S. executives, when he
   pledged that China was ready to be a "partner and friend" of the U.S.
   and there was "plenty of room for bilateral cooperation".
--

   Gary Dvorchak, an Iowan considered by Xi an old friend of China, said
   Xi's fondness for Iowa was genuine but that the Chinese leader also
   used his ties to the state for propaganda value.

   “It humanises him and it gives him an ability to show a connection to
   the American people and bypass the American media,” said Dvorchak.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-9">
<text>
   Even in the best of times, diplomats struggle to get adversaries to
   compromise for mutually beneficial solutions. Human selfishness,
   paranoia, in-group solidarity, and shortsightedness make suboptimal
   deportations, a hostage crisis, disinformation, and arguably the worst
   it would seem nearly impossible to undertake the compromises needed to
   free Israeli hostages, prevent a humanitarian tragedy for Palestinian
   civilians, and forge an optimal solution for postwar governance in
--
   Jordan, Egypt, and Morocco, appear willing to see Hamas eradicated on
   the battlefield but are restricted in facilitating that outcome by the
   pro-Palestinian sentiments and massive Iranian and Russian
   disinformation campaigns among their populaces. What they are not
   restricted from doing is helping to implement a post-war interim
   solution for Gaza that safeguards Palestinian interests while
   preventing Hamas’s resurgence.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-90">
<text>
   Close this content
   Salon Salon

propaganda: Conservative pundit goes off on Trump's "excellent" doctor note
after verbal slips

   Tatyana Tandanpolie
--
   appearance, arguing that it was "no coincidence" that Trump published
   the letter on the 81st birthday of President Joe Biden, whose age and
   health have become a point of contention among both Republicans and
   Democrats. "That was propaganda. He released propaganda, right? We have
   seen no lab results,” she said, according to HuffPost. “We’ve seen
   nothing other than whatever he told this doctor to say. I also heard
   that [North Korean dictator] Kim Jong Un hit 11 holes in one. He says
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-91">
<text>
   South Korea
   Advertisement

Biden the fool, Musk the idiot pawn and Xi’s propaganda coup

   China has been treating us like fools
   Follow Us
--
Story TOpics


   China&amp;#x27;s propaganda coup illustration by Alexander Hunter/The
   Washington Times
   China’s propaganda coup illustration by Alexander Hunter/The Washington
   Times China’s propaganda coup illustration by Alexander … more >gt;
   Print
   Commentary
   By Peter Navarro - - Tuesday, November 21, 2023
--
   fools.”

   Biden has been Xi Jinping’s fool since his days as Vice President. Now,
   Mr. Xi has flown home with a massive propaganda victory at a time when
   he is struggling with a sagging economy and an increasingly restive
   population.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-92">
<text>
   Globe Op-Talks
   OPINION

A potent white supremacist tool — propaganda

New England saw a 96 percent increase in the distribution of hate speech
materials in 2022. Massachusetts led the way.
--
   What Wilson saw as “so terribly true” was a Ku Klux Klan hagiography
   that demonized Black men as sexually rapacious threats to white women
   and glorified white terrorism as the epitome of American patriotism.
   The sinister reach of the film’s virulent propaganda helped revive the
   Klan and ushered in another deadly wave of anti-Black violence.

   More than a century later, racist propaganda remains a potent tool in
   promoting white supremacy. According to the Anti-Defamation League,
   there were 6,751 recorded incidents of white supremacist propaganda
   activity last year, a 38 percent increase nationwide and an all-time
   high. And except for Texas, no state saw a more dramatic surge than
   Massachusetts.
--
   These are just a few of the 465 incidents that occurred in
   Massachusetts in 2022, a 72 percent increase from the previous year.
   That’s only part of the story. Including Massachusetts, there was a 96
   percent increase in recorded white supremacist propaganda activity
   across New England in 2022. Patriot Front and Nationalist Social Club,
   majority of hateful propaganda.

   Peggy Shukur, ADL New England’s interim regional director, said these
   groups “have made a concerted effort to concentrate in New England,” in
--

   Advertisement

   propaganda is also used for recruitment in an attempt “to lure people
   into the movement,” Shukur said. That’s made New England’s many college
   campuses a favored target for white supremacist literature.

--
   crossing the threshold of someone’s home in that way is very troubling
   to me.”

   How white supremacist propaganda proliferates changes. For decades,
   lynching postcards that depicted the murders of Black people weren’t
   just gruesome keepsakes and souvenirs. They also served as calling
   cards promoting white supremacist violence.

   What’s unchanged is propaganda as a hate accelerant. Now it can spread
   in the darkest corners of the Web, on social media, in movies available
   Trump’s anti-immigrant rhetoric inspired mass shooters at a Pittsburgh
   synagogue in 2018 and a Walmart in El Paso, Texas, in 2019.

   Republicans continue to normalize the vilification of certain groups,
   especially trans people. Hate speech in state legislatures gets
   legitimized and replicated in propaganda. It’s not a big leap from
   anti-trans bills passed under the guise of “protecting children” to
   graffiti and fliers falsely branding drag performers as “groomers” and
   “pedophiles” intent on harming kids.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-93">
<text>
rife with atrocity

   I was astonished by Renée Graham’s column “In the battle between Israel
   and Hamas, another potent weapon — propaganda” (Opinion, Oct. 18),
   which cited propaganda as a major issue regarding the Oct. 7 massacre
   in Israel by Hamas terrorists. While there is no question that
   misinformation across the board is a significant area of concern,
   Graham’s parsing of what was or was not a confirmed atrocity was
   insensitive and cold.

   Why has she not cited the ongoing Hamas propaganda against Israel? For
   example, when the hospital was hit in Gaza, the media were quick to
   place the blame on Israel. The Israel Defense Forces promptly released
   intelligence that strongly indicated otherwise.
--

   At first I was encouraged when I saw the headline of Renée Graham’s
   Oct. 18 column: “In the battle between Israel and Hamas, another potent
   weapon — propaganda.” I had just read, from another news source, the
   story that the Israel Defense Forces had presented evidence that it was
   a misfired Gazan rocket that caused the Gaza hospital blast, and that
   Hamas was using this tragedy to foment further hatred against Israel.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-94">
<text>
She puts ‘kidnapped’ fliers up again and again, knowing they’ll be torn down

‘Every page is a person,’ says Arlington resident Shirly Gurten. But some see
the hostage posters as propaganda.

   By Brooke Hauser Globe Staff,Updated November 17, 2023, 5:13 p.m.
   Shirly Gurten, a 29-year-old Israeli audio designer, has been posting
--

   Those taping up the posters say they want to honor and remember the
   hostages. Those tearing them down or defacing them have called the
   hostages “colonizers” and the campaign “false propaganda.” Many have
   been caught on camera mid-act, their faces broadcast over social media;
   some accused of ripping down fliers have been fired from their jobs as
   a result.
--

   “It’s, to me, the definition of street art — it’s getting your message

   Others see the fliers as a form of propaganda. “I think the posters are
   indicative, actually, of what’s going on in American media,” said
   Jhally, who’s the founder and executive director of the Media Education
   Foundation.
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-95">
<text>
   MagazineTechnologyClimateEducationCarsReal EstateEvents
   Q&amp;A

When propaganda displaces democracy

   By Nick Osborne Globe Staff,August 30, 2015, 12:00 a.m.
   This anti-Nazi propaganda poster encouraged US citizens to conserve
   gasoline during World War II. This anti-Nazi propaganda poster
   encouraged US citizens to conserve gasoline during World War II. Weimer
   Pursell illustration for US government

   Even the word “propaganda” seems to somehow scream totalitarian state,
   more suited to “1984” than a country where liberty and freedom are
   central to national identity. Yet, disturbingly, propaganda may
   actually flourish even better in the fertile soil of liberal democracy.

   Nothing in a democracy is outside the reach of propaganda, from media
   to politics to education. Its influence on citizens’ choices can’t be

   In his new book, “How propaganda Works,” Jason Stanley, a Yale
   philosophy professor, explains it’s always been that way. Stanley
   tracks propaganda’s history across continents and through decades,
   illuminating its power to make people vote against their own best
   interests. And what he has found is the words being used may be as
   important as the politics behind them.
--
   Advertisement

   IDEAS: What do we, as citizens, need to know about the structure of
   propaganda?

   STANLEY: propaganda is one of those issues that,
   whether you live in a democratic or totalitarian society, it’s always
   important. A problem comes from this linguistic strategy of making
   certain words say one thing but communicate another message. Some words
   have been taken and exploited for propaganda. There are innocent words
   that are politically dangerous.
   Get The Primary Source
   Globe Opinion's weekly take on politics, delivered every Wednesday.
--
   STANLEY: If I say, “That damn table is in my way,” all I’m saying is
   that the table is in my way. But what I’m conveying, what I’m telling
   you, is that I don’t like the table. I have a negative attitude toward
   it. propaganda can politicize apparently nonpolitical words and give
   them what we call not-at-issue content. You can then model that content
   as an emotion, such as antipathy towards a group of people. . . .
   There’s no mystery left about how this happens. In fact, if it didn’t
--

   Advertisement

   IDEAS: Are the uses of propaganda in a democracy rooted in this same
   exploitation of words?

   STANLEY: This is actually Plato’s problem with democracy in Book VIII
--

   IDEAS: We hear a lot of talk about the impact of money in politics. Are
   big corporate donors and rhetoric about the private sector something
   new in the discussion of propaganda or old forces reincarnated?

   STANLEY: The opposite of democracy is the managerial state. This is
   where you have a planned society, with someone running the society
--
   being run more efficiently, we have to ask: Who is it more efficient
   for when services are cut?

   IDEAS: How can propaganda inform and educate people to defend their own
   interests in a more conscious way?

   STANLEY: All liberation movements have the need for propaganda. Because
   what happens? In a democratic society, policy is supposed to be decided
   by taking everyone’s perspective into account. propaganda makes some
   people’s perspectives entirely invisible. You have to somehow shock
   people into recognition that there’s a perspective they haven’t been
   taking into account. And that’s what the civil rights movement was
--

   • The Internationalist: Can posters and statues incite violence?

   • Martha Bayles: Putin’s propaganda highlights need for public
   diplomacy

   • Uncommon Knowledge: Nazi propaganda is still working

   • Brainiac: When war meant getting people to sign up
   Boston Globe Today
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-96">
<text>

   Press Freedom

Kremlin propaganda on Uptick in Latin America

   December 08, 2023 1:44 PM

--
   Share


   Kremlin propaganda on Uptick in Latin America

   share

--
   James Rubin, the U.S. State Department’s Global Engagement Center
   special envoy and coordinator, agreed in an interview with VOA last
   month that Russia is “covertly co-opting local media and influencers to
   spread disinformation and propaganda” in Latin America.
   A screenshot of RT en Español, Russia Today's Spanish website, on Nov.
   17, 2023. A screenshot of RT en Español, Russia Today's Spanish
   website, on Nov. 17, 2023.
--
US Seeks to Preempt Russian Influence Operation Targeting Latin America

   In a public statement issued on November 7, the State Department said
   Russia "is currently financing an ongoing, well-funded disinformation
   campaign across Latin America," spanning at least 13 countries, from
   Argentina and Chile in the south all the way to Mexico in the north.

--

   Christopher Hernandez-Roy of the Washington-based Center for Strategic
   and International Studies, or CSIS, said Russia has a “legacy of
   propaganda” in the region going back to the Cold War.

   Hernandez-Roy is a CSIS Americas Program deputy director and senior
   fellow.
--
   80s."

   The annexation of Crimea in 2014, he said, became the starting point of
   a new wave of disinformation in the region.

   "It's around then that you start to see maybe an uptick in Russia's
   influence or trying to influence narratives in the Western Hemisphere,"
--
   America,” Rubin told VOA in November. “The difference here is they're
   trying to operate surreptitiously. They're trying to create content in
   Russia and launder it through Latin American journalists. They are
   covertly co-opting local media and influencers to spread disinformation
   and propaganda.”
   James Rubin, the U.S. State Department’s Global Engagement Center
   special envoy and coordinator, said that Russia is "covertly co-opting
   local media and influencers to spread disinformation and propaganda.”
   James Rubin, the U.S. State Department’s Global Engagement Center
   special envoy and coordinator, said that Russia is "covertly co-opting
   local media and influencers to spread disinformation and propaganda.”

   U.S. officials said it is unclear how many of the journalists and
   although a senior State Department official told VOA, “There are
--
   American that Moscow has used since Soviet times: its diplomatic corps.

   "Russian ambassadors, Russian embassies here are a part of Russia's
   propaganda machine,” he told VOA. “They've been doing their work for
   many years. These are not embassies of four or five persons. These
   embassies have 60, 70, 80 people each. Imagine what can be done with
   such a group of people! According to our information, some work for the
--
Death Toll of Media, Aid Workers at Record High in Israel-Hamas Conflict
       A screen shot of Actualidad RT's website homepage on Dec. 8, 2023.

Kremlin propaganda on Uptick in Latin America
       in Washington, D.C., Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA) FILE - The U.S. Agency
       for Global Media logo at Voice of America, in Washington, D.C.,
       Nov. 22, 2019. (VOA)
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-97">
<text>

   Hot Topics

ISIS propaganda seducing ‘new generation of teenagers,’ French domestic intel

   Security chief warns Islamist ideology is likely to exist for a very
   long time to come.
--
   A new generation of French teenagers is being wooed by the Islamic
   State terrorist group — infamous for its on-camera immolations of
   captives in Iraq — and seems ominously susceptible to the group’s
   propaganda, according to the head of France’s DGSI internal security
   directorate, Nicolas Lerner.

   France — home to Europe’s largest Jewish and Muslim populations — has
--
   especially among the generations that had committed themselves in the
   early 2010s.

   “But ISIS propaganda is now coming back to seduce a new generation of
   teenagers who, for various reasons — a quest for identity, the echo of
   a discourse of victimization, or a glorification of violent impulses
   that they may otherwise feed — are once again showing themselves to be
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-98">
<text>

Business

Democrats accuse Twitter of profiting off Hamas propaganda

The letter calls for Linda Yaccarino and Elon Musk to answer by December 1

--
   By Brian Fung and Samantha Delouya | CNN

   A group of House Democrats has accused X, the platform formerly known
   as Twitter, of profiting from Hamas propaganda and misinformation about
   the Israel-Hamas war after reports by independent researchers found
   numerous accounts glorifying the US-sanctioned terror group.

--
   Citing analyses by groups including the Institute for Strategic
   Dialogue, NewsGuard and the Tech Transparency Project, Tuesday’s letter
   said lawmakers were “outraged by the clear indicators that X is
   profiting from the spread of Hamas’s terrorist propaganda — both
   through monthly subscription fees collected from some propaganda
   spreaders, and through ads displayed in replies to posts by both
   Premium and regular accounts.”

--

   “Given X’s major cuts to content moderation staff over the last year,
   it appears that X has willfully permitted, and benefited from, the
   illegal spread of terrorist propaganda,” wrote the group, led by Reps.
   Adam Schiff of California, Daniel Goldman of New York and Jamie Raskin
   social media platforms is wholly unacceptable.”

--
   Yaccarino, who until now has sought to position herself as a cheery
   counterweight to Musk’s flirtation with far-right extremism. The letter
   calls for Yaccarino and Musk to answer by December 1 to allegations
   that X has amplified terrorist propaganda in violation of its own
   policies.

   It comes a day after the Senate Judiciary Committee said it had
</text>
</page> §
<page="en-99">
<text>
   Close this content
   Rolling Stone Rolling Stone

Things Are So Bad for DeSantis That His Top propaganda Blog Is Shutting Down

   Nikki McCann Ramirez
   December 4, 2023 at 10:14 PM·3 min read
--

   The Florida Standard has gone belly up. The death of a low-circulation
   right-wing rag would normally be fairly unremarkable, except that this
   particular publication is a favorite propaganda outfit of Florida
   governor and presidential candidate Ron DeSantis.

   According to a report from The Floridian, the Standard, which has for
--
   Download our app
   Download app from appStore Download app from googlePlay

   gs-bad-desantis-top-propaganda-211441835.html&amp;c14=-1]
</text>
</page> §
</lang>
<lang="fr">
<page="fr-1">
<text>
    #Guinéenews© » Flux Guinéenews© » Flux des commentaires Guinéenews© »
   Lutte contre la désinformation : plusieurs  journalistes outillés… Flux
   des commentaires alternate alternate alternate alternate

   Guinéenews©
--

     À la une

     Lutte contre la désinformation : plusieurs  journalistes outillés…

   Guineenews/Orange

Lutte contre la désinformation : plusieurs  journalistes outillés…

   Publié par : Alhassane Bah Le : lundi, 20 novembre 2023 à 15h:15

   Partager

   Trois jours dédiés à la lutte contre la désinformation ont réuni des
   journalistes, des blogueurs et des membres de la société civile en
   Guinée, du 16 au 18 novembre 2023. Organisée par le National Democratic
   Institute (NDI) et l’International Foundation for Electoral Systems
--
   de connaissances et d’outils cruciaux à l’ère numérique, visant 
   façonner une société bien informée et critique.

   Ramda  Farhat a mis en lumière le contexte guinéen où la désinformation
   peut avoir des conséquences dévastatrices sur les processus
   démocratiques en cours de consolidation. Elle a souligné l’importance
   de cet atelier pour contrer cette menace, offrant une expérience
--

   Mountagha Sylla, représentant d’IFES, a exprimé son honneur de
   collaborer à ce projet. Il a souligné les objectifs communs entre IFES
   et le NDI sur la question de la désinformation, mettant en avant la
   complémentarité des interventions institutionnelles et celles avec les

   La cérémonie a été présidée par Abdoulaye Djibril Diallo, directeur du
   Fonds d’appui au développement des médias, représentant la ministre de
   l’Information et de la Communication. Il a souligné le rôle crucial de
   la formation pour outiller les journalistes face à la désinformation,
   les incitant à devenir des acteurs de la démocratie et de l’État de
   droit.

   Les thèmes abordés lors de cette formation ont couvert un large
   spectre, allant de la décortication de la désinformation à la
   compréhension des motivations derrière les campagnes de désinformation.
   La vérification des faits, le respect du code de conduite, de la
   législation sur les médias et la désinformation en Guinée ont été parmi
   les sujets débattus.

   Cette initiative offre aux acteurs des médias et à la société civile
   des outils nécessaires pour faire face à la désinformation, contribuant
   ainsi à une société mieux informée, critique et démocratique.

Articles similaires
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-10">
<text>
   Des publicités pour les grandes entreprises de la tech (Apple, Oracle
   et IBM) sont apparues près de publications favorables à Hitler et aux
   nazis, selon un rapport publié jeudi de l'ONG Media Matters, qui lutte
   contre la désinformation.

     "IBM applique une tolérance zéro pour les discours de haine et les
     discriminations, et nous avons suspendu immédiatement toutes nos
--

   Depuis qu'Elon Musk a racheté Twitter fin octobre 2022 avant d'en
   changer le nom, la plateforme a assoupli ses règles sur la
   désinformation, réduit ses équipes de modération des contenus et permis
   le retour de nombreuses personnalités controversées. Plusieurs
   associations ont constaté une hausse de la désinformation et du
   harcèlement.

   Une analyse de la plateforme internationale contre la désinformation
   NewsGuard indique ainsi que les utilisateurs "certifiés" sur X
   produisent 74% des affirmations fausses ou sans fondement les plus
   virales liées à la guerre entre Israël et le Hamas.
--
   soutenant sur X une publication aux relents antisémites et
   conspirationnistes, puis a ensuite vivement critiqué l'organisation de
   lutte contre l'antisémitisme Anti Defamation League, qui avait dénoncé
   une hausse notable de la désinformation et des insultes homophobes et
   racistes sur le réseau social depuis que les règles ont changé.
   RG avec AFP
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-100">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Guerre en Ukraine : Emmanuel Macron en guerre
   contre la propagande russe en Afrique et signature d'un accord européen
   sur le gaz


--

   Retour à l’accueil

   Monde Emmanuel Macron en guerre contre la propagande russe en Afrique



--
    1. Accueil
    2. Monde

Guerre en Ukraine : Emmanuel Macron en guerre contre la propagande russe en
Afrique et signature d'un accord européen sur le gaz

   RECAP' Ce mardi 26 juillet, « 20 Minutes » fait le point pour vous,
--
       de réfugiés.
       ? Vous saurez tout sur l’avancée des négociations et sur les
       événements de cette crise qui secoue la Russie, l’Ukraine, l’Europe
       propagande russe active sur le continent, notamment à propos de la
       guerre en Ukraine.

   Vous avez raté les derniers événements sur la guerre en Ukraine ? Pas
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-101">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Guerre en Ukraine : « Appelez la Russie », la
   campagne téléphonique contre la propagande de Moscou


   Retour à l’accueil
--
   Retour à l’accueil

   Monde « Call Russia », la brillante campagne téléphonique anti
   propagande russe



--
    2. Monde

Guerre en Ukraine : « Appelez la Russie », la campagne téléphonique contre la
propagande de Moscou

   GENIE L'initiative au nom original de « Call Russia » a été imaginée
   par un groupe de Lituaniens pour combattre la propagande de Moscou


    20 Minutes avec AFP
--
   Vladimir Poutine — Mikhail Klimentyev/TASS/Sipa USA/SIPA

   Un groupe de Lituaniens a lancé ce mardi une campagne d’appels
   téléphoniques vers la Russie pour combattre la propagande de Moscou et
   contribuer ainsi à la cessation de la guerre en Ukraine.

   rc/q3s3vm3?tagparam=category%3Dactualite%26subcategory%3Dmonde%26tags%3
   Dmonde%2Cukraine%2Cvladimir_poutine%2Cpropagande%2Clituanie

   L’initiative « Call Russia » doit mobiliser des volontaires de la
   diaspora russe et russophone pour appeler au hasard l’un des 40
   millions de numéros de téléphone en Russie mis à leur disposition sur
   un site Internet, consultable aussi depuis un smartphone. Ses
   promoteurs espèrent que ces contacts directs contourneront la
   propagande russe et apprendront aux gens ordinaires ce qui se passe
   réellement en Ukraine.

Briser la censure russe
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-102">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Guerre en Ukraine : « Appelez la Russie », la
   campagne téléphonique contre la propagande de Moscou

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TPVF9CB
--

   Monde « Call Russia », la brillante campagne téléphonique anti
   propagande russe
     * Partager sur Messenger
     * Partager sur Facebook
--

Guerre en Ukraine : « Appelez la Russie », la campagne téléphonique contre la
propagande de Moscou

   GENIE L'initiative au nom original de « Call Russia » a été imaginée
   par un groupe de Lituaniens pour combattre la propagande de Moscou


--

   Un groupe de Lituaniens a lancé ce mardi une campagne d’appels
   téléphoniques vers la Russie pour combattre la propagande de Moscou et
   contribuer ainsi à la cessation de la guerre en Ukraine.

--
   https://www.ultimedia.com/deliver/generic/iframe/mdtk/01357940/zone/1/s
   rc/q3s3vm3?tagparam=category%3Dactualite%26subcategory%3Dmonde%26tags%3
   Dmonde%2Cukraine%2Cvladimir_poutine%2Cpropagande%2Clituanie

   L’initiative « Call Russia » doit mobiliser des volontaires de la
--
   un site Internet, consultable aussi depuis un smartphone. Ses
   promoteurs espèrent que ces contacts directs contourneront la
   propagande russe et apprendront aux gens ordinaires ce qui se passe
   réellement en Ukraine.

--
     * Guerre en Ukraine
     * Vladimir Poutine
     * propagande
     * Lituanie
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-11">
<text>
   Twitter

Israël-Hamas: les comptes Twitter "certifiés" sont des "super-propagateurs"
de désinformation

   Le 20/10/2023 à 11:55

   Sur Twitter, "74% des affirmations fausses ou sans fondement les plus
   virales liées à la guerre Israël-Hamas" viennent de comptes
   "certifiés", selon une étude de Newsguard. Une désinformation favorisée
   par l'abonnement introduit par Elon Musk.

   Une nouvelle preuve des dégâts causés par Elon Musk? Sur Twitter
   "super-propagateurs" de désinformation autour du conflit entre Israël
   et le Hamas, selon des chiffres compilés par l'entreprise Newsguard.

   D'après l'entreprise, qui étudie la diffusion des fausses informations,
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-12">
<text>

   Un an après sa reprise par Elon Musk, Twitter est déserté ce vendredi
   27 octobre. C'est du moins l'ambition du projet #NoTwitterDay, qui
   dénonce la haine et la désinformation présentes sur la plateforme.

   Les habitudes ont été plus que chamboulées sur Twitter depuis un an.
   Désormais rebaptisée X, l'application fait les frais des envies de son
--
   contestation a vu le jour: #NoTwitterDay.

   Cette initiative a pour origine un collectif mené par trois figures de
   la lutte contre la désinformation: le maître de conférence à Paris Cité
   Tristan Mendès France, le journaliste Julien Pain et le directeur de
   Conspiracy Watch Rudy Reichstadt. Leur appel a fait l'objet d'une
   tribune dans le journal Le Monde.
--
   des équipes de modération. Les trois hommes pointent ainsi l'apparition
   sur la plateforme de messages à caractère haineux, de contenus
   pédopornographiques, d'apologie du terrorisme ou encore de
   désinformation.

"Le lieu de la post-vérité"
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-13">
<text>

   Accueil >gt; Economie et politique

désinformation et contenus illégaux : l'UE ouvre une enquête sur Meta et
TikTok

   RÉSEAUX SOCIAUX
--
   les mesures qu'elles ont prises pour respecter leurs obligations en
   matière d'évaluation et de réduction des risques. Elles ont jusqu'au 25
   situation liée au conflit Israël-Hamas. Cette guerre a créé un
   environnement propice à la désinformation, avec la diffusion d'images
   violentes, d'informations erronées et de tentatives de manipulation de
   l'opinion, ce qui représente un défi majeur pour ces plateformes.

--

   Thierry Breton, lors d'un discours au Parlement européen à Strasbourg,
   a souligné que la diffusion généralisée de contenus illicites et de
   désinformation liés à ces événements comporte un risque évident de
   stigmatisation de certaines communautés, de déstabilisation des
   structures démocratiques et de l'exposition des enfants à des contenus
   violents. De plus, les attaques terroristes récentes à Arras
--
   supprimé ou signalé des dizaines de milliers de messages liés 
   l'attaque du Hamas. Il convient de noter que le réseau social X est
   particulièrement scruté par les experts de la Commission européenne,
   qui s'inquiétaient déjà en septembre du taux élevé de désinformation
   sur cette plateforme, soulignant ses performances insatisfaisantes lors
   de tests menés sur plusieurs plateformes.

--
       Entreprises et marchés
   L'UE ouvre une enquête sur la fusion Deutsche Börse-LSE
       Entreprises et marchés
   désinformation: l'UE accentue la pression sur les géants d'internet
       Economie et politique
   Twitter : nouvelle mise en garde de l'UE contre la désinformation
       Entreprises et marchés

   Logo capital 30 ans Inscrivez-vous gratuitement pour accéder aux
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-14">
<text>
    1. Accueil
    2. Actualités
    3. Tech
    4. désinformation
    5. Fatigués par la désinformation, certains politiques rêvent d’un
       ciel « plus bleu »

Fatigués par la désinformation, certains politiques rêvent d’un ciel « plus
bleu »

   Par : Théophane Hartmann | Euractiv France
--

   Imprimer Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn WhatsApp Telegram

   Face à la recrudescence de contenus de désinformation sur le conflit
   entre Israël et le Hamas, qui met à rude épreuve les réseaux sociaux et
   les institutions européennes chargées de faire respecter les nouvelles
   normes de modération de contenu, certaines personnalités politiques
--
   de modérer tout contenu illégal en ligne signalé par ses utilisateurs.

   À la suite de l’assaut du Hamas contre Israël le 7 octobre, qui a donné
   lieu à une prolifération rapide de contenus de désinformation en ligne,
   le commissaire européen chargé du marché intérieur, Thierry Breton, a
   publié une lettre ouverte adressée à Facebook, Instagram et X.

   « Nous assistons à une recrudescence de contenus illicites et de
   désinformation diffusés dans l’UE par le biais de certaines
   plateformes », écrit-il dans sa lettre adressée à Mark Zuckerberg, PDG
   de Meta, propriétaire de Facebook et d’Instagram.

   À Elon Musk, PDG de X, M. Breton a ajouté : « Nous détenons des
   informations selon lesquelles votre plateforme est utilisée pour
   diffuser des contenus illégaux et de désinformation dans l’UE ».

   Dans les deux lettres, M. Breton exhorte Facebook, Instagram et X à se
   conformer aux règles du DSA, à retirer rapidement les contenus illégaux
--
   que Musk a soutenu le parti allemand d’extrême droite et anti-migrants
   AfD.

Le conflit Hamas-Israël génère une recrudescence de désinformation

   Comme l’a prouvé CNN, une vidéo, visionnée plus d’un demi-million de
   fois sur X, présente de manière trompeuse des combattants du Hamas
--

   Les très grandes plateformes en ligne et moteurs de recherche devront
   se conformer au DSA, un règlement conçu pour lutter contre les discours
   de haine et la désinformation en ligne, mais son application soulève
   des défis.

Meta : désinformation et campagnes électorales

   Dans sa lettre à Meta, M. Breton a profité de l’occasion pour insister
   sur les dangers de la désinformation dans un contexte électoral.

   Alors que le commissaire « a pris note des mesures prises par Meta pour
   augmenter les mesures d’atténuation dans la période précédant les
--
   Meta n’a pas répondu à une demande de commentaire d’Euractiv au moment
   de la publication.

« La désinformation vient de nos dirigeants politiques » : l'application du
DSA en Slovaquie mise en difficulté

   La réglementation européenne en matière de désinformation et de contenu
   illégal est mise à l’épreuve en Slovaquie à l’approche des élections
   générales, à un moment où certains considèrent que les dirigeants
   politiques utilisent la désinformation pour renforcer leur popularité
   auprès du corps électoral.

X : retour aux b.a.-ba
--
   règlement sur les services numériques : la transparence des conditions
   d’utilisation, le retrait rapide des contenus illégaux lorsqu’ils sont
   signalés par des utilisateurs et la prise de mesures d’atténuation des
   contenus de désinformation.

   Si l’on met en parallèle cette lettre et la déclaration de Věra
   Jourová, vice-présidente de la Commission européenne chargée des
   valeurs et de la transparence, le 26 septembre, selon laquelle X est
   « la plateforme qui affiche le plus grand nombre de messages de
   désinformation », il semble que X soit en passe de devenir la bête
   noire de l’UE.

   Parallèlement à l’annonce de Bluesky, M. Breton a également publié sa
--
   exclusion du marché unique de l’UE en cas de récidive.

Assaut du Hamas : Thierry Breton exhorte Elon Musk à lutter contre la
désinformation sur X

   Suite à l’assaut du Hamas sur Israël, le Commissaire européen Thierry
   Breton a exhorté Elon Musk, le propriétaire du réseau social X, à y
   enrayer « dans les 24 heures » la propagation de la désinformation dans
   l’UE.

   Langues : English | Deutsch
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-15">
<text>
    3. Politique
    4. Élections
    5. Élections slovaques : les réseaux sociaux « passifs » aux requêtes
       anti-désinformation

Élections slovaques : les réseaux sociaux « passifs » aux requêtes
anti-désinformation

   Par : Barbara Zmušková | EURACTIV Slovaquie | translated by Lysia
   Fouilleul
--

   Les demandes des autorités slovaques pour que Meta supprime les
   contenus trompeurs et mensongers avant les élections de fin septembre
   désinformation du Centre de lutte contre les menaces hybrides du
   ministère de l’Intérieur slovaque, qui appelle également à trouver une
   solution à l’échelle de l’UE pour forcer Telegram à se conformer à des
   demandes similaires.
--

   « Malgré les déclarations des représentants des réseaux sociaux et des
   plateformes en ligne sur leur volonté d’empêcher l’influence des
   élections par la diffusion de désinformation, leur réponse aux
   notifications envoyées a été lente, inefficace et, surtout,
   insuffisante », écrit le rapport.

--
   majeure de diffusion d’informations trompeuses et fausses ayant un
   impact sur la conduite des élections, mais qu’elle ne soit pas soumise
   aux obligations de la réglementation sur les services numériques, ni
   signataire du Code de pratique sur la désinformation, est un problème
   très sérieux », déclare le Centre, ajoutant que la situation nécessite
   « une solution plus complète au niveau de l’UE ».

Élections slovaques : comment les plateformes luttent contre la
désinformation politique dans le cadre du DSA

   Le 30 septembre, la Slovaquie tiendra ses premières élections depuis
   l’entrée en vigueur de la règlementation européenne sur les services
   numériques, qui comprend des obligations pour les plateformes de lutter
   contre la désinformation politique.


   Langues : English
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-16">
<text>
    2. Actualités
    3. Politique
    4. Institutions
    5. Israël-Hamas : l’UE craint que la désinformation ne déstabilise les
       démocraties

Israël-Hamas : l’UE craint que la désinformation ne déstabilise les
démocraties

   Par : EURACTIV France avec AFP
--
   en ligne dans le contexte de la guerre Israël-Hamas et a demandé aux
   États membres de se coordonner rapidement sur le sujet.

   « La diffusion généralisée de contenus illicites et de désinformation
   liés à ces évènements entraîne un risque clair de stigmatisation de
   certaines communautés, de déstabilisation de nos structures
   démocratiques, sans parler de l’exposition de nos enfants à des
--
   diffusion et l’amplification de contenus illicites, tels que les
   contenus terroristes ».

Guerre Israël-Hamas : Telegram, vecteur de propagande brute

   En cas d’attaque, c’est sans doute sur la mystérieuse messagerie
   Telegram que l’armée israélienne et le Hamas annonceront leurs actions,
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-17">
<text>
   via AFP 13h02, le 27 octobre 2023
   Un an jour pour jour après le rachat de Twitter, devenu X, par Elon
   Musk, un collectif français de spécialistes dans la lutte contre la
   désinformation a appelé à boycotter le réseau social ce vendredi. Dans
   une tribune publiée dans "Le Monde", ils regrettent notamment la
   réduction du nombre de modérateurs et la hausse de contenus haineux ou
   de fausses informations.
--
   blanche sur fond noire de X, le nouveau nom de la plateforme. Une année
   également marquée par de nombreuses polémiques, avec les licenciements
   de nombreux modérateurs, le nouveau système de certification ou encore
   la hausse de contenus haineux et de désinformation.

La réduction du nombre de modérateurs pointée du doigt

   C'est justement ce dernier point qu'ont décidé d'attaquer trois
   Français spécialistes de la lutte contre la désinformation, en appelant
   à ne pas utiliser X pendant 24 heures ce vendredi. Dans une tribune
   publiée dans Le Monde, l'enseignant Tristan Mendès France, le
   journaliste Julien Pain et le fondateur du site ConspiracyWatch, Rudy
--
   modération" qui "ne permet pas de réagir aussi diligemment qu’il le
   faudrait s’agissant de la suppression ou de la restriction des
   contenus qui contreviennent à la législation en vigueur dans l’Union
   européenne". La présence sur la plateforme de posts de désinformation,
   apologie du terrorisme, pédopornographie, incitation à la violence ou 
   la haine" sont pointés du doigt.

Augmentation des contenus de désinformation

   De même que la présence de contenus "à caractère complotiste" et la
   diffusion d'images violentes, toujours sans modération. Le collectif
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-18">
<text>
    3. Réseaux Sociaux
    4. Facebook

Réseaux sociaux : l’Europe durcit le ton sur la désinformation

   Publié le 20/10/2023 09:28
   Durée de la vidéo : 1 min
--
   contenus haineux et de fausses informations sur les réseaux sociaux. La
   Commission européenne va ouvrir une enquête visant TikTok, Instagram et
   Facebook. - Réseaux sociaux : l’Europe durcit le ton sur la
   désinformation Depuis les attaques du Hamas, on constate une large
   prolifération de contenus haineux et de fausses informations sur les
   réseaux sociaux. La Commission européenne va ouvrir une enquête visant
   TikTok, Instagram et Facebook. - (France 2)
--
   détournées... Pour tenter d’endiguer ce torrent qui déferle sur les
   réseaux sociaux, Bruxelles vient d’ouvrir une enquête visant les
   plateformes Meta et TikTok. "La diffusion généralisée de contenus
   illicites et de désinformation liés à ces événements entraîne un risque
   clair de stigmatisation de certaines communautés", remarque Thierry
   Breton, commissaire européen chargé du Marché intérieur.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-19">
<text>

       lutter contre l'antisémitisme

Manuel bleu (III) : la désinformation. Conseils concrets pour lutter contre
l'antisémitisme

   Raphaël JerusalmyAncien officier du renseignement militaire israélien,
--

   Sur manuelbleu.com, vous trouverez un outil offrant les notions de base
   indispensables à une lecture avisée de l’évènement et des conseils
   pratiques et juridiques pour vous prémunir de la désinformation et de
   l’antisémitisme. Cet outil est gratuit et libre de tous droits. Dans le
   cadre de la série d’analyses tirées du Manuel bleu contre
   l’antisémitisme et la désinformation, nous vous avons présenté, lors de
   deux analyses précédentes, une panoplie de recours et d’actions
   citoyennes pour faire face aux dires et actes antisémites et les moyens
   de réagir à une certaine presse, ainsi que sur les réseaux sociaux.
   Aujourd’hui, nous vous proposons de démonter les rouages de la
   désinformation.
   Valensin Edition Valensin EditionLe Manuel bleu pour lutter contre la
   désinformation et les attaques constantes dont le peuple juif est la c

   L’israélisation de la question juive a permis à l’antisémite de faire
   peau neuve. Cette mue lui a été indispensable pour se garantir de toute
--
   quant aux innombrables manifestations de violence et de haine, allant
   jusqu’au meurtre, qu’il entraîne dans son sillage. Et qu’il légitime
   selon une rhétorique et des procédés qui n’ont malheureusement rien de
   nouveau. Opérant sur le même mode que leur sœur aînée, la propagande,
   les mécanismes de désinformation peuvent être très facilement démontés.
   De nombreuses études et poursuites judiciaires les ont mis à nu.

   1. La désinformation la plus élémentaire consiste à dénaturer
   l’information initiale. En n’en révélant qu’une partie : "l’armée
   israélienne a abattu un Palestinien…" et en changeant l’ordre des
   événements "… après qu’il a attaqué un soldat". L’agresseur devient
--
   3. Il existe ainsi tout un registre dans lequel puiser pour parler des
   "sionistes", registre principalement établi par les propagandistes de
   pays ouvertement antisémites et hostiles à Israël. N’est-il pas étrange
   que les clichés d’une propagande goebbelsienne de bas étage, telle que
   pratiquée par nombre de pays arabes, fasse figure de professionnalisme
   journalistique en Europe ?

--

   Media Watch – Site de surveillance des médias www.mwio.org/

   9. La désinformation n’est pas uniquement le fait des médias. Mais
   aussi de certains partis politiques et donc de gouvernements lorsque
   ces partis arrivent au pouvoir. Il ne faut pas oublier que, dans la
   majeure partie des pays de l’Europe, les communautés musulmanes
--
   jeunesse, qui ne proviennent pas de ce conflit mais d’une réalité bien
   plus proche, au quotidien.

   10. Le troisième vecteur de la désinformation, après les médias et les
   institutions politiques, est celui de certaines ONG (organisations
   non-gouvernementales). Il existe trois types d’ONG hostiles à Israël.
   Celles qui le sont ouvertement, affichant leur soutien soit à la
--

   Le flot constant de mensonge déversé sur Israël parvient-il à noyer la
   vérité dans ses eaux troubles et berner l’opinion publique ?
   Parallèlement à la nécessité de lutter contre la désinformation, il est
   capital de pallier la pénurie dont est victime un public plus ouvert et
   désireux de se forger sa propre opinion. À nous de lui montrer notre
   confiance dans sa capacité à juger en toute équité et de lui procurer
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-2">
<text>
   inCyber


   Pourquoi tant de désinformation sur la guerre Israël-Hamas sur X ?

   3 min

Pourquoi tant de désinformation sur la guerre Israël-Hamas sur X ?

   Depuis l’attaque-surprise du Hamas contre Israël le 7 octobre 2023, les
   réseaux sociaux sont submergés par des contenus trompeurs et
   fallacieux, en particulier sur X (anciennement Twitter). Comment
   expliquer un tel niveau de désinformation sur le réseau social d’Elon
   Musk?
   Sécurité et stabilité du cyberespace - Fanny Tan - 26 octobre 2023

--
   fait braquer les projecteurs sur Meta et TikTok, actuellement sous la
   loupe des officiels américains et européens. Mais c’est surtout X, le
   réseau social racheté par Elon Musk en octobre 2022, qui inquiète. En
   effet, la désinformation a explosé sur le réseau dès les premières
   minutes suivant l’attaque du 7 octobre 2023, et la situation ne semble
   pas s’améliorer.

   L’approche communautaire des Community Notes – ces petits textes de
   fact-checking rédigés par des contributeurs bénévoles – a presque
   entièrement remplacé le personnel de modération dissous par Musk, fin
   2022, pour lutter contre la désinformation. Autrefois vue comme une
   expérience de modération innovante, les Community Notes sont pourtant
   dénoncées par plusieurs de ses contributeurs et des ex-salariés de la
   compagnie. Motifs : de nombreuses lacunes et une incapacité à traiter
   efficacement les contenus fallacieux.

   En effet, les Community Notes sont susceptibles d’être manipulés, voire
   utilisés à des fins de désinformation. Des groupes peuvent se
   coordonner pour voter « pour » ou « contre » certaines Community Notes,
   une manière de contrôler l’orientation du fact-checking. L’analyse par
   WIRED de notes non-publiées révèle en outre la guerre informationnelle
--
   Alors que la guerre Israël-Hamas s’embrase, la demande d’informations 
   ce sujet est plus forte que l’offre. Conséquence : cela crée un espace
   d’opportunités pour plusieurs acteurs cherchant une notoriété politique
   et/ou des gains financiers grâce à la désinformation.

   En véritable torrent, les narratifs mensongers vont jusqu’à s’immiscer
   dans les discours des plus hauts responsables politiques. Exemple : la
--
   auraient ciblé un hôpital à Gaza.

   Le collectif d’OSINT Bellingcat, reconnu pour ses fortes capacités en
   matière de démystification de la désinformation, n’a pas non plus
   réussi à identifier formellement les responsables de cette frappe, dont
   le nombre de blessés et de morts est à vérifier. Au moment de la
   rédaction de cet article, les services de renseignements français et
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-20">
<text>

    1. Actualité

Guerre Israël-Hamas : désinformation

   Editorial

--
   samedi 7 octobre.

   Lecture en 1 min.
   Guerre Israël-Hamas : désinformation

   Guerre Israël-Hamas : désinformation
   ×
   Anne-Benedicte-Hoffner_0

--
   nous donner l’illusion de la véracité. En réalité, ces images nous
   appellent à la plus grande vigilance. Chaque fois, les mêmes questions
   doivent se poser : qui filme ? et pourquoi ? Même vraies, certaines
   images peuvent servir un objectif de propagande, comme celles diffusées
   par les différentes parties au conflit, groupes islamistes ou forces
   armées israéliennes.

--
   À lire aussiAttaque contre Israël : le Hamas organise un déferlement
   d’images

   Ces tentatives de « désinformation » inquiètent le commissaire européen
   au numérique. Ces derniers jours, il a mis en garde les patrons des
   principales plateformes – Mark Zuckerberg pour Facebook et Instagram,
   Elon Musk pour X (anciennement Twitter) – contre la recrudescence de
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-21">
<text>


"Nous avons constaté des changements" : L'UE appelle TikTok à poursuivre ses
efforts contre la désinformation

   Par La Provence (avec AFP)

--

   Le commissaire européen au Numérique, Thierry Breton, a appelé ce lundi
   6 novembre le patron du réseau social chinois TikTok, Shou Zi Chew, 
   poursuivre ses efforts contre la désinformation tout en saluant des
   évolutions positives, lors d'un entretien en visioconférence.

   Thierry Breton, le commissaire européen au Numérique, a appelé le
   patron du réseau social chinois TikTok, Shou Zi Chew, à poursuivre ses
   efforts contre la désinformation tout en saluant des évolutions
   positives, lors d'un entretien en visioconférence ce lundi 6 novembre.

   La Commission européenne a ouvert en octobre des enquêtes visant
--
   responsables.

"Nous ne devons ménager aucun effort pour protéger nos concitoyens contre les
contenus illicites et la désinformation

   La Commission européenne est en train d'examiner "si ces mesures sont
   suffisantes pour garantir la conformité avec le DSA. Car aujourd'hui
   plus que jamais, nous ne devons ménager aucun effort pour protéger nos
   concitoyens - en particulier les enfants et les adolescents - contre
   les contenus illicites et la désinformation, a-t-il poursuivi.

   "Bonne réunion avec le commissaire Breton ce matin", s'est réjoui de
   son côté le vice-président de TikTok en charge des politiques publiques
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-22">
<text>

                                    Tribunes

   « Sharp power » et désinformation : nouvelles armes de déstabilisation des
                                  démocraties

   OPINION. Le « Sharp power », la nouvelle arme de désinformation massive
   contre l'occident. Par Véronique Chabourine, membre du bureau de
   l’association pour une Renaissance européenne Paris, déléguée chargée
   de la communication.
--
   terroriste menée par le Hamas* ont circulées sur les réseaux sociaux ;
   dont certaines images et vidéos datent d'il y a plusieurs années, sans
   lien avec les évènements actuels − on assiste à une avalanche de
   désinformation, notamment sur X (ex Twitter).

   Le 12 octobre, l'Union européenne lançait une enquête contre X accusé
   de laisser circuler sur son réseau de fausses informations et des
--

   Début avril, Thierry Breton, commissaire européen au marché intérieur,
   affirmait « avec la guerre en Ukraine, les cybers attaques ont bondi de
   140% en Europe ». Les cyber attaques et la désinformation sont des
   techniques utilisées par des acteurs étatiques ou non étatiques,faisant
   référence au sharp power.

   En 2017, les chercheurs Christopher Walker et Jessica Ludwig ont
   popularisé ce terme faisant référence aux moyens utilisés pour exercer
   une influence et manipuler l'opinion publique au travers de la
   désinformation, l'interférence dans les élections, la surveillance et
   la censure et la coercition économique).

Le sharp power menace la stabilité des démocraties libérales
--
   politiques - comme l'exemple de Midjourney censurant la création
   d'image du président chinois ou l'exemple depuis le 27 octobre 2022 du
   rachat de Twitter par Elon Musk qui a permis à beaucoup de comptes de
   désinformation de réintégrer la plateforme et bénéficier de la
   certification payante de X, contrairement à certains comptes de fact
   checking qui eux, l'ont perdu en ne souscrivant pas à l'abonnement. Une
   question demeure : faut-il laisser le rôle de censeur à des entreprises
--

Education et sensibilisation

   La cyber sécurité et la désinformation nécessitent une approche
   multifacette ; comme les exemples de l'Estonie, la Finlande et
   Singapour qui ont mis en place des mesures de sécurité techniques,
   juridiques et éducatives ainsi que des programmes de sensibilisation et
   de coopération internationale le démontrent.

   L'éducation et la sensibilisation sont des piliers de la lutte contre
   la désinformation et de la protection de nos démocraties libérales. En
   France, les programmes d'éducation au média et à l'information (EMI)
   sont obligatoires. Former à l'école est essentiel mais si l'on veut
   lutter efficacement, il faut sensibiliser aussi tous les publics à la
   désinformation.

   Pour 78% des Français, on peut parler d'une hygiène informationnelle
   insuffisante ; incarnée par manque de discernement quant à la source et
--
   Le soft power et la diplomatie publique doivent aussi jouer un rôle
   important - Comme de renforcer la coopération internationale afin de
   continuer à faire pression sur les acteurs responsables de la
   désinformation - et de renforcer la pensée critique, la vérification
   des faits, et sensibiliser sur les enjeux de société par le cinéma et
   les séries.

--
   technologiques, politiques et sociaux." Alors ça c'est une définition
   fourre tout ! ^^ Vous voulez donc dire que l'armée israélienne n'a pas
   tué dans cette attaque plus de 7000 palestiniens et que donc l'ONU est
   une officine de propagande de fake news pro-hamas ? Pourquoi pas hein
   mais pour ma part je ne me lancerais pas dans une telle affirmation.

   Pour être alerté par email d'une réaction à ce commentaire, merci de
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-23">
<text>
       Jeux


Moyen-Orient La désinformation s’invite dans la guerre Israël-Hamas


   Que cherchez-vous? ____________________


La désinformation s’invite dans la guerre Israël-Hamas

    1. [Accueil]
    2. [Monde]
--
   bombarde depuis la bande de Gaza. Des experts déplorent que les réseaux
   sociaux, au coeur de cette tempête, mettent trop peu de moyens en place
   pour éviter que des images violentes soient ainsi partagées à des fins
   pécuniaires ou de propagande sur ces plateformes.

   Difficile de rester impassible devant la déferlante de vidéos et
   d’images troublantes qui circulent depuis une semaine et demie sur X,
--

Trop peu trop tard

   Devant le déluge de désinformation qui s’est déversé sur les réseaux
   sociaux en marge des attaques du Hamas en Israël, l’Union européenne a
   sommé tour à tour X, Meta, TikTok et YouTube d’agir davantage pour
   juguler les fausses informations et les contenus violents qui circulent
--
   leur plateforme.

   Une analyse de la compagnie américaine Alethea, qui se spécialise dans
   le dépistage de la désinformation sur les réseaux sociaux, a d’ailleurs
   détecté un réseau d’au moins 67 comptes sur X ayant répandu du contenu
   trompeur et quasi identique sur la plateforme, même si ces comptes ne
   semblaient pas liés entre eux avant l’offensive.
--

   Le collectif de recherche Tech Transparency Project a lui aussi mené sa
   propre enquête sur X, et a constaté que la plateforme laissait libre
   cours à des comptes Premium de publier du contenu de propagande du
   Hamas. Ces publications, montrant les attaques violentes du groupe en
   Israël, sont en contradiction avec les politiques de la plateforme sur
   le contenu violent et à caractère haineux, selon le collectif.
--
   indépendante les photos et les vidéos qui circulent sur les réseaux
   sociaux, même lorsque celles-ci sont partagées par des gouvernements.
   « L’histoire nous a montré que les États pouvaient aussi faire de la
   désinformation, particulièrement dans un contexte de guerre. »

À voir en vidéo

   Mots clés propagande, Hamas, désinformation, Israël (Pays), réseaux
   sociaux, conflit israélo-palestinien, guerre Israël-Hamas

Les plus populaires
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-24">
<text>
    2. Actualité
    3. Société

Le pape François dénonce la désinformation, «premier péché du journalisme»

   Par Le Figaro avec AFP
   Publié le 26/08/2023 à 12:17, Mis à jour le 28/08/2023 à 11:56
       Lien copié

   Le pape François a dénoncé samedi la «désinformation» et les fake news
   à l’occasion de la remise d’un prix journalistique au Vatican. Le pape
   François a dénoncé samedi la «désinformation» et les fake news 
   l’occasion de la remise d’un prix journalistique au Vatican.
   Le pape François a dénoncé samedi la «désinformation» et les fake news
   à l’occasion de la remise d’un prix journalistique au Vatican. VATICAN
   MEDIA / REUTERS

   À l’occasion de la remise d’un prix journalistique au Vatican, le
   souverain pontife a dénoncé les «quatre péchés du journalisme».

   Le pape François a dénoncé samedi la «désinformation» et les fake news,
   qui en tentant d'orienter l'opinion publique représentent selon lui «le
   premier péché du journalisme». «La désinformation est le premier des
   péchés, des erreurs - disons-le comme cela -, du journalisme», a-t-il
   affirmé lors d'une audience au Vatican pour la remise d'un prix
   journalistique en présence de journalistes italiens.

   «La désinformation est l'un des péchés du journalisme, qui sont au
   nombre de quatre : la désinformation, quand un journaliste n'informe
   pas ou informe mal ; la calomnie (parfois utilisée) ; la diffamation,
   qui est différente de la calomnie mais détruit ; et le quatrième est
   un communiqué du Vatican.
--

   Publicité

   Le pape François dénonce la désinformation, «premier péché du
   journalisme»
   S'ABONNER
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-25">
<text>
   Commission européenne sur X, a précisé le porte-parole. KIRILL
   KUDRYAVTSEV / AFP

   «Nous avons constaté une hausse alarmante de la désinformation et des
   discours de haine sur plusieurs réseaux sociaux ces dernières semaines,
   et cela concerne bien entendu X», a déclaré un porte-parole de
   l’exécutif européen.
--
   Le bras de fer entre Bruxelles et X se durcit. La Commission européenne
   a demandé à ses services de suspendre leurs campagnes publicitaires sur
   le réseau social, anciennement nommé Twitter, en raison de la «hausse
   alarmante de la désinformation et des discours de haine», a indiqué
   vendredi un porte-parole. «Nous avons constaté une hausse alarmante de
   la désinformation et des discours de haine sur plusieurs réseaux
   sociaux ces dernières semaines, et cela concerne bien entendu X», a
   déclaré ce porte-parole, Johannes Bahrke.

--

   Depuis qu'Elon Musk a racheté Twitter fin octobre 2022 avant d'en
   changer le nom, la plateforme a assoupli ses règles sur la
   désinformation, réduit ses équipes de modération des contenus et permis
   le retour de nombreuses personnalités controversées. L'exécutif
   européen a ouvert en octobre une enquête visant ce réseau social pour
   la diffusion présumée de «fausses informations», «contenus violents et
--
       À bas la commission européenne !!! Vive la liberté et vive la
       France !!
       le 18/11/2023 à 07:29
       Et moi je voudrais bien suspendre la désinformation de la
       Commission Européenne, subir moins de normes tatillons et de lois
       que je n ai pas votées et qui ont été décidées par des personnes
       qui ne sont pas élues ….. une des premières désinformation est le
       discours sur les bienfaits et l efficacité des énergies
       renouvelables - qui sont par construction intermittente et qui sont
       beaucoup moins économiques que le nucléaire …. Mais chut « il ne
       faut pas le dire « à cause des lobbys au sein de la Commission au
       bénéfices d intérêts privés allemands ou d autres pays Je ne
       voudrais pas subir la désinformation de cette Commission Européenne
       qui a finançait la promotion du voile islamique et voulait
       supprimer Noël du calendrier … Et les français ont subi dans leur
       chair et dans leur vie quotidienne la désinformation de la
       Commission Européenne sur l utilité de l ARENH Que cette commission
       commence d abord à nettoyer leur écurie avant d accuser les autres
       de quoi que ce soit Et il y a du boulot
       le 17/11/2023 à 18:03
       en 2021 la désinformation venait de l elysée ! et personne ne
       trouvait à redire .....
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-26">
<text>

   C'est dans l'actu

désinformation sur X : Musk rétropédale sur la monétisation

Le patron du réseau social a annoncé dimanche soir que les messages corrigés
par la communauté ne pourront plus bénéficier du système de monétisation.
--
   Partager cet article

   Nouveau rétropédalage d’Elon Musk. Alors qu’il est régulièrement accusé
   d’encourager la désinformation sur son réseau social X (anciennement
   Twitter), le milliardaire a annoncé ce dimanche 29 octobre que les
   messages corrigés par la communauté ne bénéficieront désormais plus du
   système de rémunération qui récompense les contenus les plus viraux.
--

   Instaurée fin avril, la monétisation permet aux utilisateurs du réseau
   social de proposer des abonnements payants, avec des contenus réservés.
   Mais face aux accusations de désinformation, X a ouvert cet été la
   possibilité aux internautes de commenter ou de préciser des messages
   douteux. Un système baptisé "notes de la communauté" qui a fait suite 
   la mise en place d’autres fonctionnalités, parmi lesquelles la coche
--
   LIRE AUSSI >gt;>gt; Ukraine, IA, méthodes de travail… Les cinq infos 
   retenir du livre sur Elon Musk

   Or, selon la plateforme internationale contre la désinformation
   NewsGuard, les utilisateurs "certifiés" sur X produisent 74 % des
   affirmations fausses ou sans fondement les plus virales liées à la
   guerre. Et d’abonder : "Les comptes vérifiés sur X sont des
--
   moins, il y avait une dynamique, une volonté d’essayer d’installer une
   véritable modération. Depuis que Musk est arrivé, tout utilisateur de
   Twitter le constate, on voit bien que la toxicité des échanges, la
   polarisation, la désinformation, le harcèlement font vraiment partie du
   quotidien", avait fait valoir Tristan Mendès France, un des trois
   acteurs à l’origine du #NoTwitterDay, invité au micro de France Inter
   vendredi 27 octobre.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-27">
<text>

   C'est dans l'actu

Guerre Hamas - Israël : désinformation sur X… Musk rappelé à l’ordre par l’UE

L’Union européenne a menacé le réseau social de sanctions, sommant son patron
Elon Musk de rendre des comptes sur la circulation massive de fausses
--
   liées au conflit en Israël. "À la suite des attaques terroristes menées
   par le Hamas contre Israël, nous disposons d’indications selon
   lesquelles votre plateforme est utilisée pour diffuser des contenus
   illégaux et de la désinformation dans l’UE", a écrit le commissaire au
   Numérique, Thierry Breton, à Elon Musk, dans une lettre.

     Following the terrorist attacks by Hamas against 🇮🇱, we have
--

   Vidéos humiliantes d’otages, corps décapités, assassinat filmé… Les
   réseaux sociaux ont été inondés d’images violentes mais aussi de
   tentatives de désinformation depuis les attaques menées samedi matin
   par le Hamas, un défi pour les équipes de modération des plateformes.
   Un groupe de 67 comptes X diffuse par exemple une désinformation
   coordonnée sur la guerre entre Israël et le Hamas, selon un groupe de
   recherche publié par NBC News.
   LIRE AUSSI >gt;>gt; Twitter quitte le code européen contre la désinformation
   en ligne : quelles conséquences ?

   Les comptes, dont beaucoup étaient auparavant dédiés à des sujets plus
--
   Le patron de X réaffirme régulièrement sa vision de la liberté
   d’expression, refusant toute "censure", même s’il assure que la
   plateforme respecte les lois de chaque pays en la matière. Bruxelles
   s’était inquiété fin septembre du taux de désinformation sur le réseau
   social, épinglant ses mauvais résultats lors de tests effectués sur
   plusieurs plateformes. Par ailleurs, depuis la semaine dernière, les
   liens et articles de presse partagés sur X n’apparaissent plus que sous
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-28">
<text>
   C'est dans l'actu

Guerre Israël-Hamas : l'UE ouvre une enquête sur Meta et TikTok pour
désinformation

La Commission européenne a expliqué dans un communiqué avoir adressé une
demande formelle d'informations à ces deux plateformes.
--

   Vidéos humiliantes d'otages, corps décapités, assassinats filmés... Les
   réseaux sociaux ont été inondés d'images violentes mais aussi de
   tentatives de désinformation, un défi pour toutes les plateformes.

"Déstabilisation de nos structures démocratiques"

   LIRE AUSSI >gt;>gt; Attentat d’Arras : "Le seul religieux ne peut suffire 
   expliquer les actes terroristes"

   "La diffusion généralisée de contenus illicites et de désinformation
   liés à ces événements entraîne un risque clair de stigmatisation de
   certaines communautés, de déstabilisation de nos structures
   démocratiques, sans parler de l'exposition de nos enfants à des
--
   Le réseau social du milliardaire Elon Musk est pourtant
   particulièrement scruté par les experts de la Commission européenne.
   Bruxelles s'était inquiété fin septembre du taux élevé de
   désinformation sur X, épinglant ses mauvais résultats lors de tests
   effectués sur plusieurs plateformes.

   Après avoir racheté Twitter l'an dernier, Elon Musk a procédé à une
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-29">
<text>

   C'est dans l'actu

Twitter quitte le code européen contre la désinformation en ligne : quelles
conséquences ?

La plateforme d’Elon Musk se retire de cet engagement qui force les
--
   Le logo de Twitter en octobre 2022

   Six mois après son rachat par Elon Musk, Twitter quitte le code des
   bonnes pratiques de l'Union européenne concernant la désinformation.

   afp.com/OLIVIER DOULIERY
   E.R. avec AFP
--

   Nouveau rebondissement dans la gestion du réseau social d’Elon Musk :
   Twitter a décidé de quitter le "code de bonnes pratiques" contre la
   désinformation en ligne de l’Union Européenne (UE). La nouvelle a été
   annoncée - sur Twitter évidemment - par Thierry Breton, vendredi 26
   mai.

--
   européen : depuis le rachat du réseau social en octobre 2022, le
   propriétaire milliardaire a assoupli la modération des contenus
   problématiques, et semble avoir amplifié la voix de propagateurs
   notoires de désinformation sur la plateforme.
   LIRE AUSSI >gt;>gt; Guerre de l’information : "Il manque un réseau social
   européen"

--
   Twitter, Microsoft, TikTok, mais aussi de plus petites plateformes,
   ainsi que des professionnels de la publicité, des fact-checkeurs et des
   ONG. Le retrait de Twitter risque-t-il d’ouvrir la porte à toujours
   plus de désinformation sur la plateforme ?

Le DSA prend le relais à partir d’août

--
   pratiques ne permettra pas à Twitter de s’affranchir totalement des
   règles du continent. "Vous pouvez courir mais vous ne pouvez pas vous
   cacher, a-t-il prévenu. Au-delà des engagements volontaires, la lutte
   contre la désinformation sera une obligation légale en vertu de la loi
   sur les services numériques (DSA) à partir du 25 août."

   "Nos équipes seront prêtes à faire appliquer la loi", a encore averti
   le commissaire européen. Le DSA prévoit effectivement des amendes
   pouvant aller jusqu’à 6 % du chiffre d’affaires des plateformes pour
   punir celles qui ne déploieraient pas les efforts nécessaires afin de
   réduire les risques de désinformation, et violeraient ainsi ses règles
   sur les contenus illégaux. Cette loi européenne pourrait permettre
   d’aller jusqu’à bannir une plateforme du territoire en cas
   d’infractions répétées.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-3">
<text>

   Le Grand Continent

Comprendre la désinformation en Afrique

   Études Arsenalisation : le front de l'information
   Russie-Ukraine ; Israël-Hamas… La désinformation est l'une des
   questions brûlantes du contemporain. C’est particulièrement le cas sur
   le continent africain où elle constitue un double problème politique et
   géopolitique qui traverse l'ensemble des sociétés. Cette étude fouillée
--
          → S'abonner

   Aux prémices de l’ère des réseaux sociaux, le continent africain a été
   témoin d’une augmentation rapide des campagnes de désinformation
   modernes^1. Il est toutefois important de noter que ce fléau est
   antérieur à l’ère numérique^2. Bien que la désinformation ait toujours
   fait partie de l’écologie de l’information et de la communication en
   Afrique, la nature instantanée des réseaux sociaux a augmenté la
   fréquence de campagnes d’informations méticuleusement élaborées,
   intentionnellement fausses et trompeuses. L’ampleur de la
   désinformation en Afrique reflète une tendance mondiale, soulignant le
   besoin urgent de comprendre ses origines, ses instigateurs et ses
   conséquences profondes^3.

   Ces dernières années, la désinformation a joué un rôle central dans les
   campagnes politiques, les crises de santé publique, les conflits et le
   soutien aux putschs en Afrique, ce qui incite à examiner de plus près
   son fonctionnement et son influence sur la vie des sociétés à travers
   le continent^4. Si certains attribuent son succès à une remise en cause
   du néocolonialisme, accompagnée de la résurgence de la Russie en tant
   qu’acteur mondial,  ces analyses négligent un élément crucial : la
   désinformation en Afrique est avant tout africaine^5. Sous couvert de
   réflexes post-coloniaux, ces évaluations sous-estiment l’histoire de la
   désinformation en Afrique, ses protagonistes locaux, ses forces
   motrices et ses répercussions endogènes sur la stabilité
   sociopolitique, l’économie et la santé publique^6.

Les vecteurs de désinformation en Afrique

Adaptation historique

   Bien que l’attention portée à la désinformation se concentre sur les
   médias sociaux, le phénomène n’est pas nouveau en Afrique^7. Il est
   historiquement répandu dans les journaux, à la télévision et dans
   d’autres formes de médias traditionnels, et il est antérieur à l’époque
   coloniale et à l’ère numérique. Pendant la période coloniale, la
   désinformation a joué un rôle important dans l’élaboration des récits
   et la perpétuation du contrôle sur les sociétés africaines. Les
   puissances coloniales ont utilisé diverses tactiques pour diffuser de
   fausses informations et manipuler les perceptions, notamment en
--
   les peuples africains, en fonction de leurs intérêts. Cette
   manipulation de l’information a perpétué des dynamiques de pouvoir
   inégales et érodé l’identité culturelle et l’estime de soi des
   communautés africaines. La désinformation a également été utilisée pour
   réprimer les mouvements de résistance et étouffer les voix des
   dirigeants africains et des intellectuels dissidents^8.  L’impact de la
   désinformation à l’époque coloniale a laissé un héritage, façonnant des
   perceptions et des récits qui continuent d’influencer les discussions
   contemporaines sur l’histoire et le développement de l’Afrique, par
   exemple sur ses savoirs.

     Le fléau de la désinformation est antérieur à l’ère numérique.
     Admire Mare, Valdez Onanina, Guillaume Soto-Mayor

   L’ère postcoloniale immédiate en Afrique a vu l’adaptation et la
   poursuite de ces stratégies de désinformation, bien que dans des
   contextes évolutifs et menées par de nouveaux acteurs. La plupart des
   pays africains ayant accédé à l’indépendance dans les années 50 et 60,
   la lutte pour le pouvoir et la formation des gouvernements
   post-indépendance ont constitué un terrain fertile pour la manipulation
   de l’information. Les factions politiques, tant nationales
   qu’étrangères, se sont engagées dans des campagnes de désinformation
   pour façonner l’opinion publique, déstabiliser les gouvernements et
   promouvoir leurs propres intérêts politiques et économiques. Les
   anciennes puissances coloniales ont continué à exercer des pressions
   sur les régimes à parti unique amis, contrôlant souvent les chaînes de
   radio et de télévision publiques^9. La désinformation a été utilisée
   comme un outil pour saper les opposants politiques, diffuser des récits
   erronés sur les factions rivales et semer la discorde au sein des
   nations nouvellement créées. Par exemple, pendant l’apartheid en
   Afrique du Sud dans les années 1970, le gouvernement de l’époque a
   utilisé l’argent des contribuables pour financer une campagne de
   désinformation bien huilée, connue sous le nom de « scandale de
   l’information » ou « Muldergate ». L’État d’apartheid a financé le
   journal Citizen pour redorer son image au niveau international. À la
   suite de ce scandale, le Premier ministre John Vorster est tombé et
--
   froide a encore intensifié ces efforts, les puissances mondiales
   cherchant à exercer une influence et un contrôle sur les gouvernements
   africains nouvellement installés. Les États-Unis et l’Union soviétique
   utilisent la propagande et la désinformation pour faire avancer leurs
   programmes géopolitiques respectifs.

   Les conséquences de ces campagnes ont été considérables. Elles ont sapé
   la confiance dans les institutions nouvellement établies et entravé les
   efforts visant à favoriser l’unité nationale et à promouvoir la
   gouvernance démocratique. L’impact persistant de la désinformation au
   cours de cette période critique continue de façonner le paysage
   politique de l’Afrique.

--
   satire, les ragots et les plaisanteries, sous-tendent les adaptations
   créatives de la technologie par les utilisateurs africains des
   médias^10.  L’information atteint même ceux qui n’ont pas d’accès
   direct à internet. Une grande partie de la désinformation est diffusée
   par des moyens oraux, tels que les émissions de radio et les
   conversations dans les espaces publics comme les mosquées, les églises,
   les marchés, les maisons familiales, les bars et les lieux de
--
   technologie, accèdent à l’information et participent au paysage
   numérique mondial.

     Pendant la période coloniale, la désinformation a joué un rôle
     important dans l’élaboration des récits et la perpétuation du
     contrôle sur les sociétés africaines.
     Admire Mare, Valdez Onanina, Guillaume Soto-Mayor
--
   les élections présidentielles du pays, soulignant ainsi son immense
   influence^17.

La montée en puissance des « spécialistes de la désinformation » africains

   Dans le contexte spécifique de la désinformation, un nombre croissant
   de mercenaires digitaux efficaces, disponibles et peu coûteux ont vu le
   jour ces dernières années sur tout le continent.

   Ces spécialistes de la désinformation adoptent diverses tactiques
   sophistiquées, notamment l’utilisation de bots, de trolls et de
   deepfakes, et ont évolué au fil du temps, employant des stratégies qui
   camouflent leurs origines en externalisant les opérations de
--
   communication stratégique, pour mener à bien des campagnes de
   manipulation. Ces mercenaires ou « guerriers du clavier » sont
   faiblement rémunérés (par exemple, au Nigeria, ils étaient payés 14
   dollars par mois pour leurs campagnes de désinformation coordonnées)
   afin de ternir l’image des concurrents politiques ou économiques.

     L’information atteint même ceux qui n’ont pas d’accès direct 
     internet.
     Admire Mare, Valdez Onanina, Guillaume Soto-Mayor

   La production de fausses informations et de désinformation est devenue
   un modèle commercial. Au-delà des individus, certains sont des
   entreprises de relations publiques clandestines ou secrètes qui
   diffusent de la désinformation sous la forme d’articles isolés ou de
   campagnes sophistiquées à grande échelle visant à discréditer les

   L’agence GPCI, qui signifie « Groupe Panafricain pour le Commerce et
   l’Investissement » est l’un des exemples les plus probants de
   l’émergence de ces nouveaux acteurs de la désinformation en Afrique. Ce
   groupe est connu pour ses activités de trafic d’influence et de
   désinformation, opérant principalement au Burkina Faso, au Mali, au
   Togo, où il est enregistré et a ses bureaux, au Maroc et en République
   centrafricaine^19.

--
   de leurs repères et de leurs ressources mémorielles, nationales et
   panafricaines. Ces tendances alimentent une recherche constante de
   contre-informations, alternatives aux anciens discours, elles font
   aussi le lit des différentes formes de désinformation.

La désinformation en politique

   La diffusion délibérée d’informations fausses et trompeuses est devenue
   une tactique courante employée par ces acteurs pour manipuler les
   récits, discréditer les opposants et consolider leur emprise sur le
   pouvoir. L’utilisation de la désinformation s’étend à des paysages
   politiques plus larges et est déployée pour miner la dissidence, faire
   taire l’opposition, dissimuler la mauvaise gouvernance et consolider le
   pouvoir. Des gouvernements utilisent les nouvelles fausses et
--

   Une tendance inquiétante montre que les gouvernements autoritaires,
   mais aussi, de plus en plus, les gouvernements démocratiquement élus,
   désinformation pour contrôler et réduire les espaces d’expression
   politique. Les gouvernements ont mis en place des lois pour contrer
   l’information à visage découvert qui sont de plus en plus utilisées
   pour protéger leurs propres campagnes de désinformation. C’est par
   exemple le cas de la loi ougandaise sur les communications de 2013, de
   la loi camerounaise sur la cybersécurité et la cybercriminalité ou de
   la proclamation éthiopienne sur la prévention et la suppression des
   discours haineux et de la désinformation^22. Il en va de même pour la
   loi de 2021 sur la cyberprotection et la protection des données au
   Zimbabwe.

--
   mai 2023 par Doudou Ka, le ministre sénégalais des transports aériens
   et du développement des infrastructures aéroportuaires^25.

La désinformation gagne les élections

   Les campagnes de désinformation influencent de manière croissante les
   processus électoraux et leurs résultats en Afrique comme dans le reste
   du monde^26. Une enquête a montré que 87 % des Kényans interrogés
   avaient été confrontés à la désinformation au cours de la période
   précédant l’élection présidentielle de 2021^27. Instiller la peur de la
   violence en diffusant de fausses informations pour faire baisser le
   taux de participation dans les zones favorables à un adversaire
--

   Les candidats aux élections disposant des ressources les plus
   importantes, et en particulier les dirigeants de gouvernements
   autoritaires, mènent de vastes campagnes de désinformation en utilisant
   de faux comptes rémunérés sur Facebook, Twitter, Tik Tok et Instagram.
   Ces « actifs inauthentiques », bots et « fermes à bots », visent 
   créer une illusion de consensus autour d’un candidat et à exacerber les
--
   intéressante. En effet, les enquêtes menées par le DFRLab ont montré
   que le président Museveni, son fils et le ministère de l’information,
   des communications et des technologies ont mené simultanément de vastes
   campagnes de désinformation visant à discréditer Bobi Wine, le chef de
   l’opposition, et à créer un faux sentiment de consensus et de soutien
   autour de la candidature de Museveni^30.

   De vastes campagnes de désinformation sont également menées par des
   dirigeants démocratiques à travers l’Afrique pour conquérir ou
   conserver le pouvoir politique. Le président du Sénégal, Macky Sall,
   aurait ainsi eu recours aux services de la nébuleuse « Team Jorge »,
   spécialiste de « l’influence, de la manipulation électorale et de la
   désinformation », pour sa réélection en 2019^31. La tristement célèbre
   firme britannique Cambridge Analytica a notamment été impliquée dans la
   diffusion de campagnes de désinformation lors des dernières élections
   présidentielles au Kenya et au Nigéria^32.

De nouveaux outils de propagande

   Les juntes militaires au pouvoir au Mali, au Burkina Faso et en Guinée
   Les fausses nouvelles qu’ils ont diffusées, visant à discréditer les
--
   soutenant l’action des FSR et présentant son impact positif pour le
   Soudan.

   La désinformation est également utilisée par les politiciens pour
   soutenir ou s’opposer aux réformes nationales, aux initiatives locales
   et/ou aux idées. En 2021, les résultats d’une recherche menée par la
   Fondation Mozilla ont montré qu’au Kenya, des cyber-mercenaires ont été
--
   multiples faux comptes afin de donner l’illusion d’un soutien populaire
   aux réformes constitutionnelles proposées par le gouvernement, qui, si
   adoptées, auraient favorisé les deux principaux leaders politiques
   désinformation politique (par exemple, en utilisant #JusticeForSale)
   suprême du Kenya. Ces campagnes ont entraîné une perte de légitimité du
   système judiciaire dans son ensemble au Kenya, l’indépendance de ses
   fonctionnaires ayant été discréditée par les fake news. Ainsi, la
   désinformation menée par des acteurs politiques fragilise l’ensemble de
   la structure de l’État.

désinformation et légitimité religieuse

   Les acteurs religieux ont rejoint le train de la désinformation. Dans
   un environnement religieux où divers acteurs attachés aux croyances
   musulmanes et chrétiennes mènent des campagnes de prosélytisme
   religieux depuis des décennies en Afrique, parfois conflictuelles, la
   désinformation est devenue un outil puissant pour simultanément
   promouvoir certaines croyances et pratiques, et discréditer celles de
   concurrents sur la scène religieuse. Suivant les tendances d’abord
   utilisées par les évangélistes et les leaders salafistes avec la
--
   foi et l’identité religieuse des gens, ces acteurs peuvent diffuser des
   informations qui résonnent avec les convictions religieuses des
   individus, ce qui rend plus difficile pour les adeptes de discerner les
   fake news. Les campagnes de désinformation peuvent impliquer la
   diffusion de miracles, de prophéties et d’affirmations divines
   fabriquées de toutes pièces, dans le but de renforcer l’autorité et la
   légitimité des chefs religieux ou de leurs organisations. Ces pratiques
--
   vulnérables, souvent au niveau financier, ce qui renforce encore
   l’influence de ces acteurs religieux^37.

   Les campagnes de désinformation ont également un impact significatif
   sur la façon dont de nombreux citoyens perçoivent le monde, leurs
   communautés et leurs sociétés^38. En effet, la désinformation menée par
   les acteurs religieux en Afrique dépasse souvent les contextes
   religieux et touche à des questions politiques et sociales. Elle peut
   concerner des programmes d’aide internationale ou des initiatives de
--

Les acteurs économiques

   L’utilisation de la désinformation par les acteurs économiques en
   Afrique est devenue une préoccupation croissante, car elle pose des
   défis importants au développement économique, à la concurrence loyale
   et à la confiance du public. Les acteurs économiques emploient des
   stratégies de désinformation pour manipuler la dynamique du marché,
   influencer l’opinion publique et garantir leurs propres intérêts
   financiers.

   La désinformation par les acteurs économiques est observée dans le
   domaine des ressources naturelles et des industries extractives. Des
   histoires fabriquées de toutes pièces sont diffusées pour manipuler
   l’opinion publique et tromper les parties prenantes sur les impacts
--
   garanties adéquates et perpétuer un discours qui favorise leurs
   intérêts aux dépens des communautés locales et de l’environnement.

     La désinformation par les acteurs économiques est observée dans le
     domaine des ressources naturelles et des industries extractives.
     Admire Mare, Valdez Onanina, Guillaume Soto-Mayor

   En outre, la désinformation par les acteurs économiques entrave les
   efforts de lutte contre la corruption et de promotion de pratiques
   commerciales transparentes. Elle est par exemple utilisée pour
   discréditer les dénonciateurs, manipuler la perception du public et
   influencer les processus judiciaires, notamment en tentant d’éroder la
   confiance du public dans le système judiciaire. La famille Gupta, en
   Afrique du Sud, est un exemple classique de campagne de désinformation
   menée par des acteurs économiques^40.  S’appuyant sur la société
   anglaise de relations publiques Bell Pottinger, la famille Gupta a créé
   un réseau sophistiqué de plateformes de médias grand public (comme le
--
Les journalistes et les influenceurs

   Les journalistes jouent un rôle important dans les campagnes de
   désinformation. Les partis pris politiques, les incitations financières
   certains journalistes à s’engager dans des reportages partisans, 
   faire de la propagande ou à diffuser de fausses informations pour
   influencer l’opinion publique, en particulier pendant les périodes
   électorales. Il convient de noter que l’équipe israélienne Jorge s’est
   principalement appuyée sur des sociétés de médias africaines pour
   diffuser des campagnes de désinformation^41.

   Les influenceurs et les médias locaux, et non la Russie (qui les a
   seulement soutenus), ont été les principaux producteurs et diffuseurs
--
   nouvelles qu’ils ont diffusé ont donné une vue cohérente aux Maliens
   pour saisir et analyser les échecs de la France dans son opération
   militaire ou pour découvrir les « vraies » intentions de la France. Ces
   campagnes de désinformation ont contribué à façonner le véritable
   soutien populaire à la décision de la junte militaire d’expulser les
   diplomates et les militaires français du Mali en 2022^42. Les exemples
   abondent également en Afrique du Sud et au Zimbabwe où des journalistes
--

   Promouvant leurs intérêts et appuyant leurs alliés sur le continent, de
   grandes et moyennes puissances jouent un rôle important dans la
   propagation de la désinformation en Afrique. Ces acteurs s’appuient
   cependant sur les dynamiques et acteurs endogènes de désinformation et
   ne peuvent être considérés comme sa source principale. En voici
   quelques exemples.

La désinformation russe au centre de l’attention

   L’utilisation de la désinformation par la Russie en Afrique a fait
   l’objet d’une attention particulière ces dernières années. La Russie a
   stratégiquement employé des tactiques de désinformation pour influencer
   l’opinion publique et manipuler les processus politiques sur l’ensemble
   du continent, notamment par l’intermédiaire de médias contrôlés par
   l’État tels que RT et Sputnik. La Russie a recours à des sociétés de
   sécurité privées, et plus particulièrement le groupe Wagner, comme
   producteurs de campagnes de désinformation^44. La Russie s’appuie
   également sur de faux centres de recherche et organismes de
   surveillance électorale, parfois gérés par des militants d’extrême
   droite en Europe, tels que l’activiste néonazi belge Luc Michel et une
   société qu’il a créée sous le nom de « Russosphère »^45.

   Les campagnes de désinformation russes semblent avoir soigneusement
   pris en compte les contextes socio-anthropologiques et politiques
   africains, ainsi que les facteurs locaux et les motivations de la
   diffusion de la (dés)information. Le recrutement d’experts locaux en
--
   soutenues par des trolls russes. M. Doucouré a été reçu par
   l’ambassadeur de Russie à plusieurs reprises.

   Les campagnes de désinformation russes réverbèrent habilement les
   frustrations des citoyens et exploitent leurs griefs à l’égard des
   élites dirigeantes et leur méfiance à l’égard des médias
   traditionnels^47. Ces campagnes de désinformation mettent notamment en
   avant les thèmes suivants, tout en jetant un éclairage positif sur la
   Russie : les discours anti-(néo)coloniaux, la lutte contre
   l’exploitation et les ingérences, la décadence morale de l’Occident en
--

Les acteurs occidentaux

   L’utilisation de la désinformation par la France et les États-Unis en
   Afrique est un sujet de préoccupation et d’analyse croissant. Les deux
   pays ont été impliqués dans l’utilisation de tactiques de
   désinformation pour promouvoir leurs intérêts géopolitiques et
   économiques respectifs sur le continent^48.

     La Russie ne fait souvent qu’exploiter les incohérences politiques
--
   En décembre 2020, Facebook a annoncé la suppression de comptes
   inauthentiques qui auraient été gérés par des agents français et qui
   visaient le Mali et la République centrafricaine (RCA). Bien que visant
   à combattre et à rejeter les campagnes de désinformation russes ciblant
   ses intérêts, ces campagnes de désinformation ont également cherché 
   façonner le récit autour de la politique française et de la situation
   sécuritaire dans le pays.

   En outre, il est notable que des entreprises occidentales ont joué un
   rôle important dans l’émergence et la diffusion de campagnes de
   désinformation à grande échelle^49.  La société anglaise Cambridge
   Analytica, aujourd’hui disparue, a également joué un rôle important
   dans la production et la diffusion de campagnes de désinformation lors
   de plusieurs élections présidentielles au Nigéria en 2015^50, et pour
   soutenir la réélection du président Uhuru Kenyatta au Kenya^51.

Les acteurs du Moyen-Orient

   La Turquie a été accusée d’employer des tactiques de désinformation
   pour promouvoir ses intérêts politiques et économiques en Afrique^52.
   Par le biais de médias liés à son gouvernement, les campagnes de
   désinformation turques consistent souvent à promouvoir une image
   positive du pays, à mettre en avant ses initiatives de développement et
   à minimiser les critiques à l’encontre de son gouvernement.

   L’Arabie saoudite a également été identifiée comme un acteur clé dans
   la diffusion de la désinformation en Afrique, en particulier par le
   biais de ses médias et des organisations médiatiques qu’elle soutient.
   Les efforts de désinformation de l’Arabie saoudite en Afrique tournent
   souvent autour de thèmes religieux et idéologiques, cherchant 
   influencer l’opinion publique et à maintenir son influence parmi les
   communautés musulmanes. L’Arabie saoudite et ses alliés traditionnels,
--

   Ces dernières années, l’Iran a également utilisé divers comptes de
   médias sociaux par procuration pour mener des campagnes de
   désinformation ciblées au Nigeria, au Sénégal et en République
   centrafricaine^54. Ces campagnes étaient principalement motivées par
   des considérations politiques et géopolitiques^55. Le Qatar a également
   été accusé à plusieurs reprises de soutenir des campagnes de
   désinformation menées par les Frères musulmans ou leurs affiliés dans
   des pays africains. Il est également accusé d’avoir soutenu des
   campagnes de désinformation en Libye pour soutenir ses alliés
   locaux^56.

   pays africains à la guerre de Soukkot.]

L’influence chinoise

   L’utilisation de la désinformation par la Chine en Afrique a attiré
   l’attention, car le pays cherche à étendre son influence et à façonner
   les récits sur le continent. La politique chinoise du « guerrier
   loup », qui consiste à utiliser ses médias pour influencer les récits
--
   coopération Sud-Sud, des récits anticoloniaux, de la qualité de la
   stratégie d’investissements directs chinois et de son modèle de
   développement, ainsi que de la vision partagée d’une communauté ayant
   un avenir commun. Ces campagnes de désinformation visent également 
   contrer les discours d’autres acteurs, notamment en ce qui concerne la
   responsabilité de la Chine dans la crise du covid.

   La désinformation chinoise en Afrique implique ses médias officiels,
   tels que China Global Television Network (CGTN) et Xinhua News Agency.
   Il convient également de noter que le réseau social chinois TikTok est
   devenu l’un des outils de désinformation les plus utilisés sur la scène
   politique du continent^58. La désinformation sur TikTok a notamment été
   prépondérante lors des dernières élections au Kenya.

Les conséquences de la désinformation en Afrique sont africaines

   En Afrique, l’impact de la désinformation pourrait être
   particulièrement important par rapport à d’autres régions du globe.
   Dans ces régions la désinformation s’appuie sur les antagonismes
   sociopolitiques, communautaires et/ou religieux existants et les
   alimente. Des politiques publiques et services publics déjà fortement
   critiqués peuvent voir leurs champs d’action encore restreints en
--
   l’analphabétisme, des recherches scientifiques insuffisantes en nombres
   et audiences, et les limitations à la liberté d’expression et
   d’information peuvent encore aggraver les effets des campagnes de
   désinformation^59.

La montée de toutes les formes de violence

   La désinformation joue un rôle important dans l’exacerbation des
   tensions existantes, l’alimentation des conflits et l’incitation à la
   violence au sein des sociétés africaines. Plusieurs facteurs clés
   contribuent à ce phénomène. Les campagnes de désinformation exploitent
   et amplifient souvent les divisions historiques, ethniques ou
   religieuses. Les tensions récurrentes entre le Maroc et l’Algérie sont
   alimentées par des campagnes de désinformation virulentes^60. Cela a
   aussi été le cas lors des dernières élections au Kenya, où la
   désinformation a alimenté les griefs sous-jacents entre les communautés
   et a considérablement exacerbé les comportements violents qui ont
   conduit à la mort de centaines de personnes.

     Le problème de l’analphabétisme, des recherches scientifiques
     insuffisantes en nombres et audiences, et les limitations à la
     liberté d’expression et d’information peuvent encore aggraver les
     effets des campagnes de désinformation.
     Admire Mare, Valdez Onanina, Guillaume Soto-Mayor

   Les campagnes de désinformation peuvent également être délibérément
   conçues pour susciter la peur, la haine et le ressentiment au sein des
   communautés. Cette manipulation de l’opinion publique peut conduire 
   une augmentation de l’animosité, de la polarisation et, en fin de
--
   nigérienne de Côte d’Ivoire. En réalité, la vidéo a été sortie de son
   contexte^61.

   La désinformation est un outil essentiel dont disposent les
   gouvernements pour délégitimer, déstabiliser et justifier la violence 
   l’encontre des groupes armés et des rébellions actifs sur leur
   territoire et vice-versa. En Éthiopie, le gouvernement et les rebelles
   du Front populaire de libération du Tigré (TPLF) ont tous deux eu
   recours à des campagnes de désinformation à grande échelle, en
   diffusant de fausses nouvelles affirmant par exemple que l’armée
   éthiopienne bombardait le Tigré au phosphore blanc ou que des chefs
   rebelles étaient morts^62. Au Cameroun, le président Biya et son
   gouvernement ont mené ces dernières années plusieurs campagnes de
   désinformation ciblant les séparatistes anglophones, faisant état des
   atrocités qu’ils auraient commises et incitant les Camerounais
   francophones à se défendre contre ces prétendues « agressions »^63. Ces
   campagnes de haine ont servi à susciter la peur chez les Camerounais, 
   redorer l’image du président Biya et à justifier une fois de plus sa
   mainmise sur le pouvoir politique. Dans ce cas, la désinformation a
   également conduit à des violences mortelles contre la minorité
   anglophone. En fait, comme en Éthiopie, des activistes en ligne et/ou
   des mercenaires ont directement incité à des massacres communautaires
   sur Facebook et Twitter.

   La désinformation joue un rôle important dans l’aggravation des
   divisions religieuses et l’incitation à la violence entre les
   différents groupes religieux dans de nombreux pays. Des flambées de
   violence liées à l’insécurité religieuse ont eu lieu au Mali et au
--
   entraîné la mort de 11 personnes, principalement des musulmans peuls,
   tués par des groupes d’autodéfense majoritairement chrétiens^65.

   En Afrique du Sud, la désinformation a également été utilisée dans le
   cadre d’attaques bien organisées contre des ressortissants étrangers.
   Que ce soit en ligne ou hors ligne, la désinformation a été utilisée
   pour justifier des attaques xénophobes contre des Africains du reste du
   continent qui séjournent illégalement en Afrique du Sud. Des mouvements
   insurrectionnels tels que #PutSouthAfricansFirst et #OperationDudula
   des étrangers^66. Certaines de leurs désinformations ont été accusées
   d’avoir alimenté des attaques physiques contre des étrangers au Cap, 
   Durban et à Johannesburg.

   La désinformation a été utilisée par la junte militaire pour justifier
   des actes de violence à l’encontre des opposants politiques, pour
   justifier leur maintien au pouvoir exécutif et pour neutraliser tout
   mouvement de protestation, notamment au Mali.

   Enfin, la désinformation peut perturber les efforts de consolidation de
   la paix et saper les initiatives de résolution des conflits. En semant
   la méfiance et en encourageant les théories du complot, la
   désinformation peut saper la crédibilité des processus de paix,
   entraver les efforts de réconciliation et perpétuer les cycles de
   violence. C’est notamment ce qui se passe actuellement au Mali et en
   RDC.

La dégradation de la santé publique

   La désinformation exacerbe les problèmes de santé existants. La
   désinformation en matière de santé est étroitement liée à la
   désinformation politique et religieuse. La peur, l’inquiétude, la
   stigmatisation et d’autres fausses informations sur l’épidémie de SRAS
   et les épidémies d’Ebola, provoquées par des campagnes de
   désinformation, ont souvent été menées par des acteurs religieux et
   politiques^67.

   Les campagnes de vaccination constituent un exemple frappant de
   dégradation de la santé due à la diffusion de fausses informations^68.
   Pendant la pandémie de COVID-19, la désinformation a alimenté
   l’hésitation et le scepticisme à l’égard des vaccins, entravant les
   efforts de vaccination et compromettant la capacité des gouvernements
   sur le continent à contrôler la propagation du virus. Des études ont
--

     La peur, l’inquiétude, la stigmatisation et d’autres fausses
     informations sur l’épidémie de SRAS et les épidémies d’Ebola,
     provoquées par des campagnes de désinformation, ont souvent été
     menées par des acteurs religieux et politiques.
     Admire Mare, Valdez Onanina, Guillaume Soto-Mayor

   Avant l’apparition du COVID-19, les campagnes de désinformation avaient
   déjà un impact massif sur l’utilisation des résultats de la recherche
   dans la prise de décision par les décideurs politiques. Le rôle de la
   désinformation dans l’exacerbation de l’épidémie d’Ebola en Afrique de
   l’Ouest est un autre exemple poignant. De fausses affirmations ont
   circulé, selon lesquelles la maladie était une conspiration et une
   invention occidentale, ce qui a suscité de la méfiance à l’égard des
--
   1990. Elle a été rejetée comme une invention occidentale destinée 
   dépeupler le continent africain^72.

   Un autre effet fréquent de la désinformation est le non-respect des
   directives sanitaires gouvernementales pour lutter contre une maladie
   actions et des comportements dangereux, notamment en se tournant vers
   des médicaments nocifs pour guérir un virus. Le personnel de santé
--

   Les professionnels de la santé deviennent en effet moins audibles en
   raison de la diffusion de fausses informations mettant en doutes leur
   expertise^75. La désinformation visant à diminuer l’autorité des
   scientifiques est parfois associée aux intentions d’acteurs économiques
   qui tentent de vendre des traitements médicaux non recommandés par des
   experts. En Afrique du Sud, de fausses affirmations ont été diffusées
--
   personnes à abandonner des traitements fondés sur des preuves médicales
   et à mettre leur santé en péril.

   L’impact de la désinformation sur la santé sexuelle et reproductive est
   une autre préoccupation majeure. Une organisation espagnole d’extrême
   droite, CitizenGQ, a orchestré une campagne de désinformation qui s’est
   procréation par le parlement kenyan^76. Dans de nombreux pays
   africains, de fausses informations circulent sur la contraception, les
   infections sexuellement transmissibles et les services de santé. Cette
   désinformation peut conduire à des pratiques nuisibles à la santé, 
   des grossesses non désirées et à la propagation de maladies
   sexuellement transmissibles.

La cohésion sociopolitique menacée

   La désinformation constitue une menace importante pour la cohésion
   sociale et politique en Afrique. La désinformation cible différentes
   communautés, exacerbe les rivalités politiques existantes, polarise les
   communautés et sape le tissu social des pays. Au Nigeria, la
   désinformation ciblant les candidats à la présidence s’est souvent
   appuyée sur leurs croyances religieuses et leur appartenance
   communautaire, ce qui a contribué à la montée de la violence contre les
   communautés religieuses. Originaire du Nord et musulman, l’ancien
   président Buhari a par exemple été accusé de soutenir le groupe
   djihadiste Boko Haram^77.

   La désinformation a notamment fait reculer l’Afrique en matière
   d’égalité des sexes et de droits des femmes, notamment parce que les
   femmes politiques africaines sont de plus en plus ciblées par des
   « fake news » dégradantes, qui répandent l’idée qu’elles ne seraient
--
   à des accusations non vérifiées d’« être homosexuel » se sont
   multipliées au Sénégal, en Ouganda et en Égypte.

   La désinformation réduit la confiance dans la démocratie dans toute
   l’Afrique. La désinformation sape également la crédibilité des médias
   indépendants, ce qui affaiblit encore les fondements d’une gouvernance
   responsable. La désinformation affecte également de manière critique
   des médiateurs sociopolitiques prééminents dans les démocraties
   africaines tels qu’Alioune Tine, célèbre figure sénégalaise qui a
   récemment été victime de harcèlement en ligne, souvent dans des termes
--

Les implications régionales et mondiales

   La diffusion de la désinformation en Afrique a des conséquences
   importantes aux niveaux mondial et régional. Aux niveaux mondial et
   régional, l’incertitude et les fausses informations sur les tendances
   économiques, les investissements ou les relations commerciales, ainsi
   que la volatilité sociopolitique aggravée par les campagnes de
   désinformation, peuvent avoir un impact sérieux sur les marchés
   économiques. La diffusion des risques sanitaires et le manque de
   capacités de certains États africains à prévenir les futures épidémies
   de maladies infectieuses et à réduire leur diffusion en raison de la
   diffusion de la désinformation pourraient avoir de graves conséquences
   sur la sécurité sanitaire régionale et mondiale.

   Les campagnes de désinformation ciblant des communautés spécifiques ont
   également suscité des tensions intercommunautaires et des solidarités
   intracommunautaires au-delà des frontières des États. En fait, les
   campagnes de désinformation visant les communautés Fulbe en Afrique
   étatiques, ont constitué une tendance particulièrement inquiétante au
   cours de la dernière décennie^82. Ces campagnes de désinformation sur
   les communautés Fulbe ont eu des conséquences considérables, car ces
   histoires fabriquées sont présentes (avec des variations) sur les
   scènes sociales et politiques de la plupart des États d’Afrique de
--

   Des récits erronés sur des accords internationaux ou des événements
   géopolitiques ont conduit à des malentendus et à des tensions entre
   nations à travers l’Afrique. L’impact de la désinformation a été mis en
   évidence lors de la récente crise qui a opposé les États malien et
   ivoirien à la suite de l’arrestation de soldats ivoiriens au Mali^83.
   Des campagnes de désinformation sur les motivations présumées de la
   présence du contingent ivoirien au Mali et sur une éventuelle
   intervention militaire ivoirienne pour libérer ses hommes ont prospéré
   et ont fortement influencé la perception de la crise de part et
   d’autre.

   La désinformation peut également affecter les relations entre les
   nationalités au-delà du continent africain. Comme nous le voyons
   actuellement en Tunisie, en Afrique du Sud et dans de nombreux pays
   d’Europe occidentale, les campagnes de désinformation visant les
   communautés de migrants subsahariens ont des conséquences humanitaires
   désastreuses et de grande ampleur^84.

--

   Un autre exemple intéressant est la couverture de la crise ukrainienne
   en Afrique. Une étude montre que la plupart des Africains ont diffusé
   de la désinformation critiquant l’Occident, les États-Unis et l’Europe,
   pour le deux poids deux mesures de leurs politiques et attitudes 
   l’égard des réfugiés africains et de l’aide à l’Afrique, des étudiants
   africaines en Ukraine ou la comparaison entre les entreprises
   coloniales et la guerre de Poutine^85. Ainsi, le succès des campagnes
   de désinformation concernant les acteurs locaux et internationaux doit
   être compris en parallèle avec l’évolution des sociétés africaines dans
   leur ensemble (voir ci-dessus) et en fonction des intérêts à court
   terme de ses principaux acteurs.
--
complète des faits

   Il est essentiel que les pays africains reconnaissent la gravité du
   problème de la désinformation et mettent en œuvre des stratégies
   globales qui donnent la priorité à la protection de la liberté
   d’expression, au renforcement des médias indépendants et 
   l’implication active des acteurs de la société civile dans la lutte
   contre la désinformation. En ce qui concerne les acteurs
   internationaux, il est enfin indispensable de reconnaître que la
   désinformation en Afrique n’est ni russe, ni française, ni chinoise, ni
   américaine, mais avant tout africaine. En effet, le succès de la
   désinformation en Afrique s’explique par des contextes
   socio-économiques, historiques et politiques propres au continent. Ses
   principaux acteurs sont africains et le succès de la désinformation a
   également des conséquences propres au continent. Naturellement, la
   lutte contre la désinformation sur le continent nécessitera également
   des solutions sur mesure, adaptées aux réalités locales, inventées et
   mises en œuvre par des acteurs africains.

Quelle voie suivre ?

   L’absence d’une presse indépendante est un problème grave, qui exacerbe
   la résonance de la désinformation. Le secteur des médias est confronté
   à des défis structurels, notamment un modèle économique fragile qui le
   rend vulnérable à la manipulation par les élites politiques et
   économiques. Le déclin de la presse indépendante et le manque
   d’investissement dans le journalisme d’investigation contribuent
   également à la propagation de la désinformation. Toutefois, les
   faits, peuvent jouer un rôle crucial dans la lutte contre la
   désinformation en renforçant la vérité et en démystifiant les fausses
   informations. Ces acteurs ont le potentiel de mener des campagnes
   d’alphabétisation numérique au niveau local qui répondent à des
   préoccupations immédiates telles que le changement climatique, la
   propriété foncière et l’extrémisme religieux. Pour lutter efficacement
   contre les campagnes de désinformation régionales, des organisations
   comme Code for Africa soulignent l’importance d’une présence locale et
   d’une équipe diversifiée parlant couramment plusieurs langues dans la
   région. Dans le même ordre d’idées, Africa Check, la toute première
--
   africains. Des organisations telles que Congo Check, certifiée par
   l’International Fact-checking Network, ont été créées grâce au mentorat
   d’Africa Check et jouent un rôle crucial dans la lutte contre la
   désinformation en RDC, en particulier dans l’est du pays, en proie à la
   violence.

   Une législation plus stricte pourrait être un moyen de s’attaquer à la
   désinformation dans la région. Cependant, le fléau de la désinformation
   n’a pas été pris suffisamment au sérieux par les politiciens du
   continent, qui ont lancé un mouvement insuffisant, et plutôt
   contre-productif, de « réglementation » du cyberespace. En fait, les
   tentatives des législateurs nigérians d’adopter le projet de loi sur la
   protection contre la falsification et la manipulation sur Internet en
   2019 illustrent la tendance alarmante des gouvernements à utiliser la
   désinformation comme prétexte pour faire taire la dissidence en
   ligne^86. Cette approche a été adoptée par plusieurs pays d’Afrique de
   l’Ouest, notamment la Guinée, le Mali, le Niger, la Sierra Leone, le
   Togo et le Nigéria, qui ont introduit des lois sur la cybercriminalité
--
   seuls quelques pays en étant exemptés. Ces lois et pratiques
   n’étouffent pas seulement le discours politique et médiatique, elles
   portent également atteinte à la liberté d’expression sans s’attaquer
   efficacement aux dommages causés par la désinformation ou à ses causes
   sous-jacentes. En conséquence, les gens sont poussés à l’autocensure,
   ce qui affecte encore davantage le flux d’informations.

--

   Pour l’Afrique, il est essentiel de passer du discours à l’action. Une
   action politique urgente doit être menée pour lutter contre la
   désinformation, ses acteurs et ses sources et prévenir ses graves
   conséquences affectant la vie de millions d’individus sur tout le
   continent.

--
       Disinfodemic and Policy in the African Context », Base et IDRC –
       CRDI, 2021.
   60. Abdellatif el Azizi, « Algérie/Maroc. Guerre des réseaux et
       désinformation numérique », Le courrier de l’Atlas, 16 Septembre
       2022.
   61. Azil Momar Lô, « Côte d’Ivoire : la vidéo à l’origine du
       déferlement de violences examinée », Africa Check,  21 mai  2021.
--
   82. Guillaume Soto-Mayor, Mahamadou Sawadogo, « The Risk of Violent
       Inter-Communal Spillover in West Africa : Realities and
       Prescriptions », Middle East Institute, 12 juin 2023.
   83. Habibou Bako, « Réseaux sociaux et désinformation au Sahel »,
       Bulletin Franco-Paix, vol.7, n°10, Chaire Raoul-Dandurand Centre
       FrancoPaix, 2022.
   84. « Tunisia calls migrant-related accusations ‘disinformation’ »,
--
   faille que dévoile cette guerre.

   Le Grand Continent logo
   Études Comprendre la désinformation en Afrique
   Facebook Twitter Linkedin

   Le Grand Continent logo Le Grand Continent
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-30">
<text>

   Edito

Israël, le Hamas et la désinformation : les leçons oubliées de la bataille de
Jénine

Les mensonges autour de l'hôpital bombardé dans la bande de Gaza le montrent
--
   LIRE AUSSI >gt;>gt; Omar Youssef Souleimane : "Chaque matin, on répétait
   'mort à Israël', sans savoir où c’était "

   Trop tard, l’effet de souffle de la désinformation avait déjà eu lieu,
   avec des retombées immédiates auprès de l’opinion internationale, en
   France et ailleurs. A l’heure des réseaux sociaux et de la post-vérité,
   "la guerre entre Israël et le Hamas se déroule sur deux théâtres : le
--
   Deux décennies plus tard, la guerre des récits fait à nouveau rage
   entre Israël et le Hamas, à destination de l’opinion mondiale. Depuis
   le 7 octobre, date de l’attaque terroriste en Israël, l’Etat hébreu
   investit des millions de dollars dans des vidéos de propagande en
   ligne, pour dénoncer les atrocités du Hamas. Le 23 octobre, les
   autorités israéliennes ont projeté devant 200 journalistes étrangers
   des vidéos de scènes de torture et de décapitation extraites des
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-31">
<text>
   Accueil / Economie / Economie numérique
   désinformation

Elon Musk semble (enfin) vouloir s’attaquer aux fake news sur X

--
   par les notes de la communauté sera inéligible à la monétisation», a
   écrit le milliardaire sur X (ex-Twitter) dimanche 29 octobre au soir.
   Un changement de taille pour une plateforme qui succombe de plus en
   plus à la désinformation. Les «Community Notes», nées en 2021, sont
   un programme dédié -, qui peuvent écrire une note pour commenter un
   tweet, et évaluer celle des autres.
   Analyse
--
   utilisateurs «certifiés» sur X produisent d’ailleurs 74 % des
   affirmations fausses ou sans fondement les plus virales liées à la
   guerre entre Hamas et Israël, a montré une analyse de la plateforme
   internationale contre la désinformation NewsGuard publiée le 19

   L’idée de Musk est donc «d’inciter à l’exactitude plutôt qu’au
   sensationnalisme», en menaçant les utilisateurs premiums qui
   pratiqueraient la désinformation d’une perte de revenus.

«Codes et données en source ouverte»

--
   ne fonctionnent pas comme elles le devraient. Ces dernières pourraient
   bien être vulnérables à des attaques coordonnées, et manqueraient de
   transparence quant à leur adoption. Le média spécialisé ajoute que les
   notes souffriraient de «luttes intestines» et de désinformation, sans
   que X ne se penche réellement dessus.

   Simple outil additionnel à l’origine, les «Community Notes» sont
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-32">
<text>
   Fake news

Twitter pourrait quitter le code de l’Union européenne contre la
désinformation

   Le réseau social envisage de quitter le code de bonnes pratiques de
   l’Union européenne, qui vise à lutter contre la désinformation en
   ligne. Une décision qui s’inscrit dans la lignée des choix de Musk ces
   derniers mois.
   par LIBERATION et AFP
   publié le 25 mai 2023 à 20h27

   Twitter en marche arrière. Le réseau social envisage de quitter le code
   de bonnes pratiques de l’Union européenne contre la désinformation en
   ligne, un accord regroupant les principales plateformes sur une base
   volontaire, selon des sources européennes. Selon ces dernières, la
   plateforme aux mains du milliardaire américain Elon Musk a informé la
--

   Depuis qu’il a acheté Twitter il y a six mois, le milliardaire Elon
   Musk a assoupli la modération des contenus problématiques, amplifiant
   la voix de propagateurs notoires de désinformation sur la plateforme.
   Twitter a indiqué préférer faire appel à sa propre communauté
   d’internautes plutôt qu’à des fact-checkeurs, indique une source
   européenne. Les rapports qu’il rendait sur la désinformation dans le
   cadre du code de bonnes pratiques étaient très lacunaires.

   «Si [Elon Musk] n’est pas sérieux sur le code, c’est peut-être mieux
--
   soustraire au DSA», la nouvelle loi sur les services numériques entrée
   en vigueur mi-novembre dans l’UE, rappelle-t-il. Le DSA contraint les
   plateformes à déployer des efforts pour «réduire les risques» de
   désinformation et prévoit des amendes pouvant aller jusqu’à 6 % de leur
   chiffre d’affaires mondial.

   Fin avril, la vice-présidente de la Commission européenne chargée de la
   transparence, Vera Jourova, avait indiqué se sentir «de plus en plus
   mal à l’aise sur Twitter» en raison de la propagande russe sur cette
   plateforme. Elle s’était aussi inquiétée de voir Twitter manquer de
   personnel dédié à la lutte contre la désinformation, après les
   licenciements massifs opérés par Musk. Contacté, le service de presse
   de la firme a répondu - comme à son habitude - par un courriel généré
   automatiquement avec un emoji en forme de crotte.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-33">
<text>
   Fake news

A quelques jours des élections législatives, la Slovaquie visée par des
campagnes de désinformation

   Guerre entre l'Ukraine et la Russiedossier
   Dossiers liés
   LGBT +
   Des campagnes prorusses, anti-LGBT + ou anti-migrants sont légion sur
   les réseaux sociaux du pays. Des opérations de désinformation qui
   inquiètent à l’approche des élections législatives qui auront lieu
   samedi 30 septembre.
   par Sarah Laurent et AFP
   publié le 28 septembre 2023 à 7h32

   C’est un phénomène qui alerte les experts en désinformation et les
   associations de défense de la démocratie. Alors que les Slovaques sont
   appelés aux urnes samedi 30 septembre, ils sont inondés d’informations
   fausses, venant aussi bien des personnalités politiques en campagne que
   de l’étranger.

   Peter Duboczi, rédacteur en chef du site luttant contre la
   désinformation Infosecurity.sk, cité par l’AFP, constate ainsi, que
   «l’écosystème de désinformation en Slovaquie […] atteint aujourd’hui
   son apogée». Il craint que l’élection législative de ce week-end soit
   la première à «refléter le plein potentiel de la désinformation». Selon
   lui, les principaux propagateurs de ces fake news sont les hommes
   politiques slovaques. Le favori pour le poste de Premier ministre,
   Robert Fico, leader du Smer, le parti de gauche populiste accusé de
--
   que les territoires actuellement occupés par la Russie n’étaient pas
   «historiquement ukrainiens», reprenant l’un des principaux arguments
   avancés par Moscou pour justifier l’invasion de l’Ukraine. Peter
   Duboczi les accuse même d’être «des bras armés de la propagande russe».
   A lire aussi

   Plus largement, selon l’organisation à but non lucratif londonienne
   contre la désinformation Reset, 15 % des 365 000 messages de
   désinformation liés aux élections enregistrés au cours des deux
   premières semaines de septembre venaient de comptes prorusses. Ces
   messages sont aussi beaucoup plus vus, générant cinq fois plus
   d’exposition qu’un message moyen.

Une ambassade russe très active sur Facebook

   Une partie de la désinformation prorusse diffusée en Slovaquie depuis
   l’invasion de l’Ukraine peut même être directement attribuée à Moscou.
   Selon Tomas Krissak, analyste chez Gerulata Technologies, une start-up
   spécialisée dans la désinformation, l’ambassade russe en Slovaquie est
   «la plus active de toutes les ambassades russes dans le monde si l’on
   examine les données de Facebook» et diffuse «beaucoup de désinformation
   et de récits manipulateurs». Une propagande efficace, puisque selon une
   enquête du groupe de réflexion slovaque Globsec, seulement 31 % des
   Slovaques ont une opinion positive du président ukrainien Volodymyr
   Zelensky.
--
   Malade. Convertir des filles de 12 ans en garçons ? Malade.»

   Les analystes et experts alertent aussi sur d’autres campagnes de
   désinformation, notamment relatives à l’arrivée de migrants du
   Moyen-Orient. Le chef de la police slovaque, Stefan Hamran, a même
   récemment dû demander aux responsables politiques d’arrêter de propager
   de fausses informations relatives à l’immigration, car elles
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-34">
<text>
   Accueil / International / Europe
   Réseaux sociaux

L’Union européenne épingle le taux de désinformation sur Twitter et
s’inquiète des manipulations russes

   L’UE s’est inquiétée mardi 26 septembre du taux de désinformation sur
   le réseau social Twitter (renommée X) et a appelé l’ensemble des
   grandes plateformes à mieux lutter contre les manipulations russes.
   par LIBERATION et AFP
--

   Nouveau trophée dans l’armoire d’Elon Musk pour son réseau social
   Twitter (renommé X). Quelques jours après avoir été classée pire réseau
   social pour la désinformation sur le climat, la plateforme est cette
   fois épinglée par l’Union européenne pour son taux de désinformation en
   général. L’UE en profite pour appeler l’ensemble des grandes
   plateformes à mieux lutter contre les manipulations russes, craignant
   une intensification du phénomène avant les élections européennes de
--
   notamment les géants Meta (Facebook, WhatsApp), Google (YouTube) ou
   TikTok, mais aussi des plateformes plus petites, ou même des
   professionnels de la publicité, fact-checkeurs et ONG. Pour mesurer la
   désinformation en ligne, les signataires ont créé des indicateurs et
   lancé une phase de test en Espagne, Pologne et Slovaquie. Les résultats
   montrent que la plateforme X, qui a quitté le code de bonnes pratiques
   en mai, est celle qui affiche «le taux le plus élevé de fausses
   informations et de désinformation dans ses publications», a noté la
   vice-présidente.
   A lire aussi

--
   Services Act (DSA), la nouvelle réglementation de l’Union sur les
   services numériques entrée en vigueur en août. Désormais, les
   plateformes doivent, entre autres, déployer des efforts pour lutter
   contre la désinformation. Faute de quoi, la Commission peut prononcer
   des amendes allant jusqu’à 6 % de leur chiffre d’affaires mondial,
   voire une interdiction d’activité sur le marché européen en cas de
   manquement grave et répété.

   A l’approche des élections nationales en Slovaquie et en Pologne et des
   européennes, Bruxelles redoute une hausse de la désinformation sur les
   réseaux. Vera Jourova a notamment appelé toutes les plateformes 
   lutter contre les manipulations venues de Russie. Elle dénonce un
   régime «engagé dans une guerre des idées pour polluer notre espace
   informationnel […] pour faire croire que la démocratie ne vaut pas
   mieux que l’autocratie». Si Google, Meta et TikTok ont pu attester de
   certaines initiatives prises contre la désinformation, du côté de X, où
   de multiples plans sociaux ont fait fondre les effectifs consacrés à la
   modération, aucune action d’ampleur n’a été annoncée.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-35">
<text>
   Accueil / Société / Education
   Réseaux sociaux

Fatiguée par la désinformation et la haine, l’université Aix-Marseille se
retire de X (ex-Twitter)

   La guerre entre le Hamas et Israëldossier
--
   France, annonce ce mardi 17 octobre «suspendre» sa présence sur le
   réseau social X (ex-Twitter), «compte tenu de son évolution
   éditoriale». Une annonce faite sur la plateforme elle-même. «En se
   retirant du code européen des bonnes pratiques contre la désinformation
   et en modifiant ses règles de modération, X est devenu un lieu de
   propagation de fake news, de contenus haineux, illicites ou violents»,

--
     — Aix-Marseille Université (@univamu) October 17, 2023

   En mai, X a en effet décidé de quitter la charte des bonnes pratiques
   de l’UE contre la désinformation en ligne, un code volontaire lancé
   en 2018 qui contient une quarantaine d’engagements visant notamment 
   mieux coopérer avec les factcheckeurs et à priver de publicité les
   sites diffusant des infox. Entre le licenciement massif de ses
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-36">
<text>
   X


désinformation: la Commission européenne suspend ses campagnes publicitaires
sur X


   le 17/11/2023 à 16h00 par  Afp - Lecture en 2 min
   La Commission européenne a demandé à ses services de suspendre leurs
   campagnes publicitaires sur X (ex-Twitter) en raison de la "hausse
   alarmante de la désinformation et des discours de...

   La Commission européenne a demandé à ses services de suspendre leurs
   campagnes publicitaires sur X (ex-Twitter) en raison de la "hausse
   alarmante de la désinformation et des discours de haine", a indiqué
   vendredi un porte-parole.

   "Nous avons constaté une hausse alarmante de la désinformation et des
   discours de haine sur plusieurs réseaux sociaux ces dernières semaines,
   et cela concerne bien entendu X", a déclaré ce porte-parole, Johannes
   Bahrke.
--

   Depuis qu'Elon Musk a racheté Twitter fin octobre 2022 avant d'en
   changer le nom, la plateforme a assoupli ses règles sur la
   désinformation, réduit ses équipes de modération des contenus et permis
   le retour de nombreuses personnalités controversées.

   L'exécutif européen a ouvert en octobre une enquête visant ce réseau
--
   IA: Niel, Saadé et un ancien patron de Google lancent un laboratoire de
   recherche à Paris

   désinformation: la Commission européenne suspend toute publicité sur X

   Nous suivre
   Avec la newsletter
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-37">
<text>

   le 22/11/2023 à 13h00 par  Afp - Lecture en 3 min
   Les théories climatosceptiques fleurissent sur les réseaux sociaux, les
   influenceurs rejoignant le front de la désinformation climatique alors
   que les scientifiques sont harcelés en lign...

   Les théories climatosceptiques fleurissent sur les réseaux sociaux, les
   influenceurs rejoignant le front de la désinformation climatique alors
   que les scientifiques sont harcelés en ligne. Tour d'horizon de cette
   guerre de l'information, à huit jours de la COP28, à Dubaï.

   "La mésinformation et la désinformation sur l'urgence climatique
   retardent l'adoption de mesures urgentes visant à rétablir la
   perspective d'un avenir viable sur la planète", déploraient les Nations
   unies dans une note de juin 2023 à propos de ces informations
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-38">
<text>
   X


Suède: Stockholm dénonce une désinformation après un lapsus du Premier
ministre sur Israël


   le 24/11/2023 à 14h30 par  Afp - Lecture en 2 min
   Le gouvernement suédois a dénoncé vendredi une "campagne de
   désinformation après la diffusion de vidéos exploitant un lapsus du
   Premier ministre Ulf Kristersson pour suggérer qu'il aura...

   Le gouvernement suédois a dénoncé vendredi une "campagne de
   désinformation après la diffusion de vidéos exploitant un lapsus du
   Premier ministre Ulf Kristersson pour suggérer qu'il aurait défendu le
   droit d'Israël à commettre un génocide.

--
   Billstrom.

   M. Bohlin a estimé, lui, que cet épisode avait été alimenté par les
   acteurs impliqués dans une précédente "campagne de désinformation en
   2022, selon laquelle les services sociaux suédois "kidnappaient des
   enfants musulmans" et les plaçaient dans des foyers chrétiens, ce que
   les autorités avaient dû démentir.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-39">
<text>
       VOIR PLUS


« Beaucoup de désinformation » : le Planning familial s’alarme d’appels
« oppressants » à couper ses subventions

   Je m’abonne pour 1€/semaine
--

   Plus d’un an après la polémique suscitée par son affiche représentant
   un homme transgenre enceint, le Planning familial s’alarme des appels 
   couper ses financements et dénonce la désinformation entourant ses
   ateliers d’éducation à la sexualité auprès des jeunes.

   « On a des appels à enlever les financements du Planning, ce qui est
--
   « On est obligés de faire des choix [d’accueil et d’accompagnement,
   NDLR] puisque les financements localement parfois n’augmentent pas
   alors que la pauvreté est grandissante. »
   Contre la désinformation en ligne sur l’IVG, le Planning familial lance
   un nouveau site

   Depuis le début de l’année, des attaques ont par ailleurs visé des
--

   La suite après la publicité

   La présidente du Planning dénonce également la désinformation entourant
   les ateliers d’éducation à la sexualité que l’association anime auprès
   de 150 000 jeunes dans quelque 3 000 établissements scolaires.

« Beaucoup de fantasmes »

   « Il y a beaucoup de désinformation, de fantasmes », de la part de
   « certaines associations », a déclaré à l’Assemblée nationale Sarah
   Durocher, citant notamment Parents Vigilants, un réseau proche du parti
   Reconquête ! d’Eric Zemmour qui s’inquiète régulièrement d’un « grand
--
   Le Syndicat de la famille (nouveau nom de la Manif pour tous) estime de
   son côté que les associations animant les ateliers d’éducation sexuelle
   dans les établissements scolaires en profitent « pour faire de la
   propagande » en faveur de « l’idéologie du genre », selon un récent
   communiqué.

   Auprès des « tout-petits », on parle du « vivre ensemble », de « la
   question de “mon corps c’est mon corps”, on s’adapte vraiment aux
   enfants, on ne parle pas de sexualité en primaire », explique Sarah
   Durocher. « Ça, ça fait partie de la désinformation qui fait peur aux
   parents. »

   Par L'Obs avec AFP
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-4">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Guerre Hamas – Israël : Contre la
   désinformation, fin de la monétisation des posts corrigés sur X


   Retour à l’accueil
--

   Retour à l’accueil

   By the Web Contre la désinformation, fin de la monétisation des posts
   corrigés sur X


--
    1. Accueil
    2. High-Tech

Guerre Hamas – Israël : Contre la désinformation, fin de la monétisation des
posts corrigés sur X

   recadrage Elon Musk a annoncé dimanche soir que les messages corrigés
--

74 % des affirmations fausses viennent de comptes certifiés

   Une analyse de la plateforme internationale contre la désinformation
   NewsGuard indique ainsi que les utilisateurs « certifiés » sur X
   produisent 74 % des affirmations fausses ou sans fondement les plus
   virales liées à la guerre. « Les comptes vérifiés sur X sont des
--
   comptes d’organisations.
   By the Web
   Guerre Hamas - Israël : TikTok, X, Meta… Les réseaux sociaux accusés de
   désinformation par l’UE
   By the Web
   Guerre Hamas-Israël : L’UE accuse Elon Musk de diffusion de « contenus
   illégaux » sur X
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-40">
<text>
   Pinterest
   WhatsApp

   Dans ce contexte marqué par la mésinformation et la désinformation,
   l'exploitation des rapports de corps de contrôle de l’État, devient un
   moment crucial pour le grand public et les médias. Photo/Ouestaf News

--
   Dans cette précipitation, pas de différence ni de catégorisation entre
   les manquements mineurs, les délits et les crimes ; encore moins de
   précaution : être cité, c’est être coupable. Ce qui conduit souvent 
   la mésinformation, voire à la désinformation.

   « Les faits relatés dans le présent rapport définitif présumés
   constitutifs de fautes de gestion ou d’infractions pénales ont fait
--
   public, à de la mésinformation (usage et diffusion, souvent par
   ignorance, d’une fausse information ou d’une information hors contexte,
   sans vraiment avoir l’intention de nuire) ; ou plus grave, à de la
   désinformation (volonté manifeste de manipuler ou de nuire).

   L’exploitation journalistique de documents officiels à des fins de
   publication reste un moment crucial, autant pour le public que pour le
--

   Pour Ibrahima Anne, rédacteur en chef du quotidien Wal fadjri (privé),
   « la course au scoop avec des informations incomplètes ou sorties de
   leur contexte est en elle-même un facteur de désinformation du
   public ». M. Anne fustige : « un gestionnaire de fonds publics
   simplement rappelé à l’ordre concernant un défaut de visa ou des
   manquements mineurs est jeté en pâture à l’opinion avec des termes
--
   ailleurs spécialisé dans l’investigation et collaborateur à Ouestaf
   News), admet plutôt qu’« une mauvaise exploitation des rapports des
   corps de contrôle peut donner lieu à la publication de fausses
   informations » mais pas forcément à la désinformation. Selon lui, la
   désinformation nécessite une intention manifeste de tromper l’opinion.
   Sinon, on est simplement  dans « le  registre de
   l’incompétence journalistique ».

--
   Par conséquent, ajoute Coumba Sylla, « ce peut être une altération
   accidentelle ou non intentionnelle, qui relève de la mésinformation. Ce
   peut être aussi délibéré, pour induire en erreur, choquer ou jouer sur
   des sentiments négatifs, ce qui relève de la désinformation »[DEL: .
   :DEL]

   désinformation ? Ce n’est point l’avis du journaliste Assane Diagne
   ancien rédacteur en chef de l’Agence de presse sénégalaise et du bureau
   francophone d’Africa-Check. Il dénonce plutôt « un traitement partisan
   voire incomplet » des rapports publics des corps de contrôle de l’État
--
   pour l’observation des règles d’éthique et de déontologie dans les
   médias au Sénégal (Cored) constituent une preuve de la défiance et de
   la désaffection du public vis-à-vis des médias, dans un contexte où la
   désinformation est exacerbée par les réseaux et médias sociaux et où
   une pléthore de médias se crée au gré du vent.

   Sur son site, le Cored publie une trentaine d’avis d’autosaisines et de
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-41">
<text>
   #Israël-Hamas: Lionel Messi et Cristiano Ronaldo confrontés à la
   désinformation - Les dessous de l'infox, la chronique


   Écouter
--
   Les dessous de l'infox, la chronique

Israël-Hamas: Lionel Messi et Cristiano Ronaldo confrontés à la
désinformation

   Publié le : 03/11/2023 - 14:19

--
       08/12/2023
       03:41

Inde: la désinformation et l'IA au bout du tunnel de l’Uttarkashi
       Après avoir passé dix-sept jours sous terre, 41 ouvriers bloqués
       dans un tunnel ont été secourus ce mardi 28 novembre dans le nord
       de l’Inde. Une catastrophe causée par l’effondrement du tunnel
--
#Pallywood: la mise en doute des victimes de Gaza à coup d'infox
       Plus d’un mois après l’attaque terroriste du Hamas et le début de
       la guerre entre Israël et les mouvements armés palestiniens, la
       désinformation ne faiblit toujours pas sur les réseaux sociaux.
       Alors que le bilan humain à Gaza ne cesse d’augmenter avec plus de
       10 800 morts selon le Hamas, des comptes pro-israéliens affirment
       que les Palestiniens mettent en scène leurs victimes. Un narratif
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-42">
<text>
   #Suède: la campagne de désinformation «LVU» qui a déstabilisé les
   services sociaux - Un monde de tech


--
   Image carrée
   Un monde de tech

Suède: la campagne de désinformation «LVU» qui a déstabilisé les services
sociaux

   Publié le : 06/11/2023 - 14:48
--
   Écouter - 03:25

   En Suède, les services sociaux de l’aide à l’enfance sont la cible
   d’une campagne de désinformation massive sur les réseaux sociaux, la
   plus grave dans l’histoire du pays. Ils sont accusés de « kidnapper »
   des enfants musulmans, sans raison valable, pour les placer dans des
   foyers ou des familles d'accueil, afin d'effacer leur culture
--

Perte de confiance pour les services sociaux

   Cette campagne de désinformation a brisé la confiance d’une partie de
   la population vis-à-vis des services sociaux suédois. Elle a aussi
   terni l'image de la Suède à l'étranger : le gouvernement a d'ailleurs
   investi dans un programme spécifique de lutter contre la
   désinformation...

   Des enquêtes ont été menées sur le travail des services sociaux, en
   particulier sur la question du placement des enfants. Il en ressort
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-43">
<text>

   Réseaux sociaux

désinformation, discours haineux, abonnements payants… Il y a un an, Elon
Musk rachetait Twitter


--
   propriétaire.

   Entre un management malsain, la mort de l’oiseau bleu au profit d’un X,
   l’explosion de la désinformation, des discours haineux et une
   potentielle fin d’un accès gratuit, retour sur un an de Twitter à la
   sauce Musk.

--
   À peine l’acquisition conclue, le patron de Tesla a licencié l’équipe
   dirigeante, sorti l’entreprise de la Bourse et opéré manu militari de
   nombreux licenciements. Dernièrement une partie importante des employés
   chargés de lutter contre la désinformation lors des élections a été
   licenciée. Mais la direction a assuré que le sujet n’était pas
   délaissé.

--
   que ce pari pourrait bien être risqué. Rien ne dit que les utilisateurs
   sont prêts à payer pour utiliser leurs réseaux sociaux.

désinformation, Donald Trump et liberté d’expression

   L’autre aspect qui finit par braquer opinion publique et leaders
   politiques est la prolifération de désinformation, sur les réseaux
   sociaux de manière générale, mais sur X en particulier. Il faut dire
   que parmi les vagues de licenciement, les équipes de modérateurs n’ont
   pas été épargnées. X et Elon Musk sont régulièrement critiqués pour la
   prolifération de la désinformation et des discours haineux sur la
   plateforme.

   Actuellement, la guerre au Proche-Orient entre Israël et le Hamas est
--
   d’expression.

   À son arrivée il a procédé à l’assouplissement des règles sur la
   désinformation, la réduction des équipes de modération des contenus et
   le retour de nombreuses personnalités controversées, comme celle de
   Donald Trump qui avait été banni dans le cadre des fausses informations
   publiées lors de l’assaut du capitole en janvier 2021. En juillet
--
   authentifiés et notoires, est devenue payante et ouverte à tous, ce qui
   a rendu la plateforme moins lisible.

   Plusieurs associations ont constaté une hausse de la désinformation et
   du harcèlement sur X. En France, dans le Monde, plusieurs spécialistes
   de la désinformation ont lancé un appel aux utilisateurs pour faire une
   grève du Tweet ce vendredi, soit le jour anniversaire de l’acquisition
   de l’oiseau bleu par Musk, avec le hashtag #nottwitterday.

   Côté politique aussi, la circulation de la désinformation irrite.
   Thierry Breton, le commissaire européen au numérique a menacé X de
   sanctions, sommant Elon Musk de rendre des comptes sous 24 heures sur
   la circulation de fausses informations et d’images violentes liées au
--
   fait de même pour Meta et TikTok. Le commissaire européen a annoncé
   ensuite avoir rejoint Bluesky, le réseau social crée par le
   co-fondateur de Twitter, Jack Dorsey. Bluesky se veut l’anti X, du
   point de vue de la modération et de la désinformation. De son côté,
   Elon Musk envisagerait le retrait de X de l’Union européenne, selon
   Business Insider.

--

Discours haineux

   À la prolifération de la désinformation, s’ajoute l’explosion des
   discours de haine en ligne. Elon Musk, qui se présente comme le
   défenseur de la liberté d’expression absolue fait face à une réalité
   difficile à accepter pour beaucoup : liberté d’expression sur X rime
--

   Récemment, l’Agence allemande contre la discrimination a quitté X
   du conflit en Israël, en raison de l’augmentation "massive" des
   commentaires haineux et de la désinformation, dont elle tient son
   patron Elon Musk pour responsable.

   "X n’est plus un environnement acceptable pour le profil d’un organisme
--
   les discriminations, dans une ultime publication sur ce réseau social,
   de plus en plus contesté. "Tous les ministères et autres organismes
   publics devraient se demander s’il est encore acceptable de rester sur
   une plateforme devenue un réseau de désinformation et dont le
   propriétaire diffuse des contenus antisémites, racistes et populistes",
   charge-t-elle encore.

--
       • Temps de lecture 1 min

Guerre Israël-Gaza : l'UE ouvre une enquête sur Meta et TikTok pour
désinformation

Economie
       • Temps de lecture 1 min
--
Monde Europe
       • Temps de lecture 1 min

désinformation: après X, la Commission européenne rappelle Meta à l'ordre

Médias
       • Temps de lecture 1 min

X, ex-Twitter, élu pire réseau social en matière de désinformation sur le
climat par une série d'ONG environnementales

Monde
--
Regard sur...
       • Temps de lecture 2 min

Un important réseau chinois de désinformation démantelé par Méta

Monde
       • Temps de lecture 2 min

Classement mondial de la liberté de la presse : Reporters sans frontières
s’inquiète d’un "déluge" de désinformation

Médias
       • Temps de lecture 3 min
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-44">
<text>
   Monde
   Modifié le 14 novembre 2023 à 07:03

Des Etats utilisent la désinformation pour s'immiscer dans le conflit
israélo-palestinien

   Le conflit entre Israël et le Hamas s'intensifie aussi sur les
   plateformes en ligne [RTS]
   La désinformation s'intensifie en ligne autour du conflit entre Israël
   et le Hamas / Forum / 2 min. / le 13 novembre 2023

   La désinformation autour du conflit entre Israël et le Hamas
   s'intensifie sur les plateformes en ligne. Plusieurs recherches
   montrent que l'Iran, la Russie et la Chine utilisent les médias d'Etat
   et les réseaux sociaux pour propager de la désinformation et de la
   propagande.

   La guerre entre Israël et le Hamas se joue aussi sur les réseaux
   sociaux, qui se retrouvent inondés de fausses affirmations.

   Jusqu'à présent, les auteurs de ces campagnes de désinformation
   n'étaient pas connus, mais des recherches de l'Institut pour le
   dialogue stratégique (ISD) démontrent désormais que la Russie, la Chine
   et l'Iran, principalement, exploitent la guerre pour faire avancer
   leurs propres lignes géopolitiques.

   Ces Etats utilisent la désinformation dans le but de soutenir le Hamas,
   d'affaiblir Israël et, in fine, de dénigrer le principal allié
   d'Israël, les Etats-Unis.

Différentes stratégies

   Chaque pays possède sa propre stratégie de désinformation ou de
   propagande. Les comptes affiliés à l'État iranien ont glorifié
   l'attaque du Hamas du 7 octobre, parlant d'un "coup stratégique contre
   Israël". Ces comptes accusent les Etats-Unis d'être responsables des
   souffrances palestiniennes, selon les chercheurs britanniques de l'ISD.
--

   >gt;>gt; Revoir le sujet de La Matinale sur la prolifération de fausses
   informations sur les réseaux sociaux:
   La désinformation sur le conflit entre Israël et le Hamas inonde les
   réseaux sociaux [RTS]
   La désinformation sur le conflit entre Israël et le Hamas inonde les
   réseaux sociaux / La Matinale / 4 min. / le 18 octobre 2023

   mcc/edel
--
   Monde

   le 28 octobre 2023
   CTRL+Z (vidéo) - Le fonctionnement de la désinformation sur les réseaux
   sociaux [RTS]

   CTRL+Z (vidéo) - Le fonctionnement de la désinformation sur les réseaux
   sociaux

   La Matinale

   le 20 octobre 2023
   Après X, Bruxelles rappelle à l'ordre Meta sur la désinformation.

   Les fausses informations sur la situation entre la Palestine et Israël
   se multiplient sur le réseau social X
--
   Laurent Cordonier, directeur de recherche à la Fondation Descartes 
   Paris. [@AntoineBeyeler]

   La désinformation menace "la vie démocratique", alerte un spécialiste
   du sujet

   Monde
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-45">
<text>

   Toute l'actualité de votre région en continu sur notre application

désinformation : la Commission européenne ne lancera plus de campagne de
publicité sur X

    Lecture 1 min
   Accueil Sud Ouest Éco Réseaux sociaux
   désinformation : la Commission européenne ne lancera plus de campagne
   de publicité sur X L’exécutif européen a ouvert en octobre une enquête
   pour la diffusion présumée de « fausses informations » sur le réseau
   social dirigé par Elon Musk. © Crédit photo : AFP
--
   Publié le 17/11/2023 à 15h43.

   La Commission européenne ne diffusera plus ses campagnes publicitaires
   sur X en raison de la hausse de la désinformation sur le réseau social
   et d’une polémique sur l’utilisation de données personnelles

   Dénonçant la « hausse alarmante de la désinformation et des discours de
   haine », la Commission européenne a demandé à ses services de suspendre
   toute campagne publicitaire sur X (ex-Twitter), a indiqué vendredi un
   porte-parole. « Nous avons constaté une hausse alarmante de la
   désinformation et des discours de haine sur plusieurs réseaux sociaux
   ces dernières semaines, et cela concerne bien entendu X », a déclaré ce
   porte-parole, Johannes Bahrke.
   Sur le même sujet

   désinformation : la commission européenne ouvre une enquête visant X
   désinformation : la commission européenne ouvre une enquête visant X
   Il s’agit de la première procédure lancée dans le cadre de la nouvelle
   législation européenne sur les services numériques (DSA), deux jours
   après une lettre d’avertissement adressé au réseau social d’Elon Musk
--
   Cette décision ne remet pas en cause la présence des services de la
   Commission européenne sur X, a précisé le porte-parole. Depuis qu’Elon
   Musk a racheté Twitter fin octobre 2022 avant d’en changer le nom, la
   plateforme a assoupli ses règles sur la désinformation, réduit ses
   équipes de modération des contenus et permit le retour de nombreuses
   personnalités controversées.

--
   renforcées aux plateformes.
   Sur le même sujet

   désinformation : qu’est-ce que le #NoTwitterDay, qui vise le réseau
   social X ce vendredi 27 octobre ?
   désinformation : qu’est-ce que le #NoTwitterDay, qui vise le réseau
   social X ce vendredi 27 octobre ?
   Un collectif de spécialistes de la désinformation, inquiets de
   l’évolution de la plateforme d’Elon Musk, lance ce vendredi une journée
   de « grève du tweet »
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-46">
<text>

   Toute l'actualité de votre région en continu sur notre application

désinformation : la commission européenne ouvre une enquête visant X

    Lecture 2 min
   Accueil Sud Ouest Éco Réseaux sociaux
   désinformation : la commission européenne ouvre une enquête visant X
   formelle d’informations à la plateforme du milliardaire Elon Musk. ©
   Crédit photo : ALAIN JOCARD/AFP

--
   Sur le même sujet

   Twitter : Musk mis en garde par l’UE et appelé à lutter contre la
   désinformation
   Twitter : Musk mis en garde par l’UE et appelé à lutter contre la
   désinformation
   Le commissaire européen au Marché intérieur, Thierry Breton, a averti
   le patron de Twitter Elon Musk qu’il devrait « significativement
   augmenter les efforts » pour se conformer aux règles de l’UE
--
   Le conflit suscite une immense émotion à travers le monde, propice aux
   tentatives de manipulation de l’opinion. Vidéos humiliantes d’otages,
   corps décapités, assassinats filmés… Les réseaux sociaux ont été
   inondés d’images violentes mais aussi de tentatives de désinformation,
   un défi pour toutes les plateformes. Bruxelles a également mis en garde
   mercredi le groupe américain Meta (Facebook, Instagram), puis le réseau
   social chinois TikTok jeudi.
--
   les réseaux sociaux Bluesky et X. Des règles plus strictes s’imposent 
   19 très grands acteurs de l’internet, dont X, Facebook, Instagram et
   TikTok, depuis fin août. Dans sa mise en garde à Meta, Thierry Breton
   avait également évoqué mercredi la désinformation dans le contexte des
   élections en Europe, avant des législatives en Pologne dimanche et un
   scrutin européen en juin prochain.
   Sur le même sujet
--
   comptes en temps réel », s’est défendue la plateforme, précisant avoir
   mis en place « un groupe de travail pour prendre soin de la
   situation ». Bruxelles s’était pourtant déjà inquiété fin septembre du
   taux de désinformation sur X, épinglant ses mauvais résultats lors de
   tests effectués sur plusieurs plateformes.
   Les sujets associés
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-47">
<text>
   Toute l'actualité de votre région en continu sur notre application

Un an après le rachat de Twitter par Elon Musk : climat de « peur »,
désinformation… Comment a évolué le réseau social ?

    Lecture 3 min
   Accueil Sciences et technologie
   Un an après le rachat de Twitter par Elon Musk : climat de « peur »,
   désinformation… Comment a évolué le réseau social ? Elon Musk a racheté
   Twitter pour 44 milliards de dollars le 27 octobre 2022. © Crédit photo
   : OLIVIER DOULIERY/AFP

--
   inconditionnellement » pour pouvoir rester, selon un ultimatum du chef.
   Sur le même sujet

   désinformation : qu’est-ce que le #NoTwitterDay, qui vise le réseau
   social X ce vendredi 27 octobre ?
   désinformation : qu’est-ce que le #NoTwitterDay, qui vise le réseau
   social X ce vendredi 27 octobre ?
   Un collectif de spécialistes de la désinformation, inquiets de
   l’évolution de la plateforme d’Elon Musk, lance ce vendredi une journée
   de « grève du tweet »

--
   instinct », plutôt que sur les données ou l’expertise, a-t-elle
   raconté.

désinformation

   Le milliardaire défend une approche radicale de la liberté d’expression
   qui s’est traduite par un assouplissement des règles sur la
   désinformation, la réduction des équipes de modération des contenus et
   le retour de nombreuses personnalités controversées. Plusieurs
   associations ont constaté une hausse de la désinformation et du
   harcèlement.
   Sur le même sujet
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-48">
<text>

   Verif'

Après l'Ukraine, la campagne de désinformation russe "Doppelgänger" s'empare
du conflit entre Israël et Hamas

   par Thomas DESZPOT &amp; Samira El Gadir
--
   vous.

   Il y a quelques mois, les dessous d'une vaste campagne russe de
   désinformation étaient révélés.
   Surnommée "Doppelgänger", elle portait sur la guerre en Ukraine et
   cherchait à déstabiliser les pays occidentaux.
   Basées sur le clonage de site de presse et institutionnels, ces
--

   En Allemagne, le terme "Doppelgänger" fait référence dans le folklore 
   lʼidée dʼun double maléfique. Mais cʼest aussi le nom donné à une vaste
   campagne de désinformation, menée par la Russie depuis 2022. À
   lʼorigine, elle se focalisait sur la guerre en Ukraine, cherchant 
   déstabiliser les pays occidentaux, mais nous observons depuis plusieurs
   semaines quʼelle tente dʼinstrumentaliser le conflit entre Israël et le
--
Des sites de médias "clonés"

   En juin dernier, TF1info décrivait les rouages de cette campagne de
   désinformation en ligne. Le principe était assez simple : des sites de
   presse (français, allemands ou encore italiens) ont été reproduits
   presque à lʼidentique, avec des adresses web différentes pour seul
   signe distinctif. Le Monde, 20 Minutes, le Guardian ou encore le
--
   une "guerre civile" serait à redouter dans lʼhexagone.
       Lire aussi
       24H Pujadas du mercredi 14 juin 2023 : Guerre - Qu'est-ce que la
       campagne de désinformation "Doppelgänger" ?

   Des articles trompeurs ont été repérés en français, mais aussi en
   allemand, hébreu, russe ou encore anglais et ukrainien. Leur point
--
       Publié le 10 octobre 2023 à 20h56
       France
       Publié le 13 juin 2023 à 17h23
       pour relayer la propagande russe
       Publié le 19 mai 2023 à 15h09
       patron de Wagner
       Publié le 24 février 2023 à 15h27
--
       attaque au couteau à Paris
       inquiètent

   Accueil-International-Après l'Ukraine, la campagne de désinformation
   russe "Doppelgänger" s'empare du conflit entre Israël et Hamas

   Mentions légalesConditions générales d'utilisationPolitique de
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-49">
<text>

   Communiqué de presse

désinformation en ligne : l’UNESCO dévoile son plan d’action pour réguler les
médias sociaux

   Audrey Azoulay, Directrice générale de l’UNESCO, a sonné l’alarme lundi
   face à l’intensification de la désinformation et des discours de haine
   en ligne qui constituent des « menaces majeures pour la vie en société
   et la stabilité ». Elle a dévoilé le plan d’action de l’UNESCO pour
   mettre fin à ce fléau, fruit d’une vaste concertation mondiale et
--
   humains. Contraindre ou brider la parole serait une terrible solution.
   Des médias et des outils d’information libres, de qualité et
   indépendants, constituent la meilleure réponse sur le long terme à la
   désinformation », a aussi plaidé la Directrice générale de l’UNESCO.

   Les plateformes doivent, notamment, se doter d’équipes de modérateurs
   qualifiés, en nombre suffisant et parlant toutes les langues
--
   La publication du plan d’action de l’UNESCO s’accompagne d’une enquête
   d’opinion conduite par IPSOS pour l’UNESCO auprès de 8000 personnes
   dans 16 pays où se tiennent des élections en 2024. Elle indique que 85%
   des citoyens sont inquiets de l’impact de la désinformation en ligne,
   alors que les médias sociaux sont devenus pour une large majorité
   d’entre eux la première source d’information.

   Cette même enquête indique que 87% des citoyens pensent que cette
   désinformation a déjà eu un impact majeur sur la vie politique de leur
   pays et craignent qu’elle pèse sur les résultats des élections prévues
   dans leur pays l’an prochain. En conséquence, ils sont 88% à demander
   que les gouvernements et les régulateurs résolvent rapidement ce
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-5">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr désinformation : Les Nations Unies proposent
   pour la première fois de réguler les plateformes


--
    1. Accueil
    2. Monde

désinformation : Les Nations Unies proposent pour la première fois de réguler
les plateformes

   ça va mieux en le disant Ce guide présenté ce lundi entend proposer une
   régulation des plateformes à l’échelle mondiale, afin d’éviter la
   propagation de la désinformation


    Mathilde Cousin
--
   48 commentaires 56 partages

   La directrice générale de l'Unesco, Audrey Azoulay, a présenté ce lundi
   les recommandations de l'Unesco pour lutter contre la désinformation et
   réguler les plateformes.
   La directrice générale de l'Unesco, Audrey Azoulay, a présenté ce lundi
   les recommandations de l'Unesco pour lutter contre la désinformation et
   réguler les plateformes. — Michel Euler/AP/SIPA
       la désinformation et réguler les plateformes.
       L’organisme des Nations Unies a formulé plusieurs pistes.
       vœux pieux.

--
   contenus des plateformes se fasse « dans toutes les langues ».

   Cette recommandation est une des sept dévoilées ce lundi par cet organe
   des Nations Unies afin de lutter contre la désinformation et réguler
   les réseaux sociaux, quelques mois avant la tenue en 2024 d’élections
   locales ou parlementaires dans seize pays. L’Unesco appelle les
   plateformes à « la responsabilité et à la transparence dans les
--
   Ces recommandations sont publiées alors que deux milliards de personnes
   sont appelées à voter l’année prochaine dans le monde. Selon un sondage
   réalisé par l’Ipsos pour l’Unesco dans 16 pays, 87 % des sondés
   s’inquiètent de l’impact de la désinformation sur les élections à venir
   dans leur pays.
   Société
   Contrefaçons et faux médicaments… L’Union européenne ouvre une enquête
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-50">
<text>
   International,Guerre Israël-Hamas

Le Hamas diffuse une vidéo de trois femmes présentées comme des otages,
Israël dénonce une « propagande psychologique »

   Dans cette vidéo de 76 secondes, on peut voir l’une des trois femmes
   appeler Benyamin Netanyahou à conclure un échange de prisonniers avec
   le mouvement islamiste pour obtenir leur libération. Le Premier
   ministre israélien a dénoncé une « propagande psychologique cruelle ».
   Par Le Parisien avec AFP
   Le 30 octobre 2023 à 16h09
   Cette vidéo de 76 secondes a été diffusée par les médias du Hamas avec
--
   à Netanyahou et son gouvernement », on peut voir les trois femmes
   assises sur des chaises en plastique dans une pièce aux murs blancs.

« propagande psychologique cruelle »

   L’une d’elles, assise au milieu, prend la parole et appelle le Premier
   ministre israélien à conclure un échange de prisonniers avec le
--
   Plusieurs médias israéliens ont publié sur leur site une capture
   d’écran de cette vidéo en indiquant qu’ils ne la diffuseraient pas,
   jugeant que les propos tenus sont dictés par le Hamas. Le Premier
   ministre israélien a qualifié de « propagande psychologique cruelle »
   la diffusion de cette vidéo. « Je me tourne vers Yelena Trupanov,
   Danielle Aloni et Rimon Kirsht qui ont été kidnappées par le Hamas qui
   commet des crimes de guerre (…). Nos cœurs sont avec vous et avec
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-51">
<text>
   International

Le Premier ministre et des députés canadiens ciblés par une campagne de
propagande chinoise en ligne

   Le Canada a affirmé lundi avoir détecté une importante campagne de
   propagande chinoise en ligne, incluant des vidéos « deepfake », visant
   à dénigrer et discréditer le Premier ministre ainsi que des députés
   canadiens.
   Par Le Parisien avec AFP
   Le 24 octobre 2023 à 11h44

   Selon le Canada, une campagne de désinformation de la Chine sur les
   réseaux sociaux a tenté de discréditer le Premier ministre ainsi que
   des députés. REUTERS/Kacper Pempel
   Selon le Canada, une campagne de désinformation de la Chine sur les
   réseaux sociaux a tenté de discréditer le Premier ministre ainsi que
   des députés. REUTERS/Kacper Pempel


   Une importante campagne de propagande chinoise en ligne visant 
   dénigrer et discréditer le Premier ministre ainsi que des députés
   canadiens a été conduite entre le mois d’août et septembre. Selon le
   ministère des Affaires étrangères, cette campagne était « liée à la
--

   De son côté, Pékin a rejeté toute implication et accusé Ottawa de
   « tromper l’opinion publique ». « Le Canada a plusieurs fois affirmé
   que la Chine propage de la désinformation visant des hommes politiques.
   Mais il n’a jamais fourni de preuves », a lancé une porte-parole de la
   diplomatie chinoise, Mao Ning en demandant à Ottawa de « cesser de
   répandre des mensonges sur la Chine ».
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-52">
<text>

   International

Pologne : arrestation de deux Russes diffusant du matériel de propagande de
Wagner

   Ce lundi, deux Russes « diffusant du matériel de propagande » du groupe
   paramilitaire russe Wagner à Varsovie et Cracovie ont été placés en
   détention en Pologne, a annoncé le ministre polonais de l’Intérieur,
   Mariusz Kaminski.
--


   Les deux Russes « accusés d’espionnage » et ayant diffusé du matériel
   de propagande du groupe paramilitaire Wagner ont été « arrêtés », a
   déclaré Mariusz Kaminski sur la plateforme X, anciennement Twitter,
   sans plus de détail.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-53">
<text>
   Toutes les actualités locales
   High-tech

Twitter : Elon Musk accuse le New York Times de propagande et lui retire sa
certification sur son compte officiel

   Elon Musk a comparé l’information que le NYT publiait à « de la
   propagande, même pas intéressante » et son fil d’actualité 
   « l’équivalent sur Twitter d’une diarrhée, illisible ». Le New York
   Times a confirmé que le journal ne comptait toujours pas « payer pour
   conserver la certification de nos comptes officiels ».
   Par Le Parisien avec AFP
   Le 2 avril 2023 à 17h56
   Elon Musk a accusé le grand journal américain le New York Times de
   propagande avant que le compte Twitter de ce dernier, suivi par 55
   millions de personnes, ne perde sa certification (illustration).
   REUTERS/Dado Ruvic
   Elon Musk a accusé le grand journal américain le New York Times de
   propagande avant que le compte Twitter de ce dernier, suivi par 55
   millions de personnes, ne perde sa certification (illustration).
   REUTERS/Dado Ruvic

--
   propriétaire de Twitter. Le compte officiel du quotidien américain New
   York Times ne disposait plus dimanche de la marque dorée réservée sur
   Twitter aux entreprises, après un tweet d’Elon Musk l’accusant de
   « propagande » tandis que le réseau social veut rendre payant ce
   symbole de certification.

   La marque était cependant toujours présente sur les comptes officiels
--
   rassemble près de 55 millions d’abonnés. La disparition de la
   certification sur le compte du New York Times intervient après deux
   tweets du propriétaire de la plateforme de microblogging, Elon Musk,
   qui comparaît l’information qui y était publiée à « de la propagande,
   même pas intéressante » et son fil d’actualité à « l’équivalent sur
   Twitter d’une diarrhée, illisible ».
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-54">
<text>

   Faits divers

Kurdes tués à Paris : Ankara convoque l’ambassadeur français pour «propagande
anti-Turquie»

   Ankara reproche aux autorités françaises d’avoir permis à des membres
--


   La Turquie entre dans la danse. Ankara a annoncé protester contre ce
   qu’elle perçoit comme une « propagande anti-Turquie » en France, depuis
   le meurtre de trois Kurdes vendredi à Paris, selon une source
   diplomatique turque. L’ambassadeur de France en Turquie a même été
   convoqué ce lundi au ministère turc des Affaires étrangères.

   « Nous avons exprimé notre mécontentement face à la propagande lancée
   contre notre pays par les cercles du PKK », le Parti des travailleurs
   du Kurdistan, a critiqué cette source, en annonçant la convocation de
   l’ambassadeur Hervé Magro.
--
   Selon Ankara, ces accusations ont été reprises « par des représentants
   du gouvernement français et des politiciens ». « Le gouvernement
   français et certains politiciens ont été utilisés comme des instruments
   de propagande. » « L’assassinat des Kurdes le 23 décembre n’est pas un
   fait divers (…). C’est un fait politique grave de sécurité intérieure
   et extérieure », a notamment déclaré ce lundi le leader des Insoumis,
   Jean-Luc Mélenchon, demandant la saisine du Parquet national
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-55">
<text>

   International

Plongée dans la propagande russe : l’Occident aurait l’intention de fabriquer
des bébés cyborgs

   Dans un sujet télévisé après la victoire du Maroc face au Portugal lors
--
   football, le 10 décembre, la télévision d’État russe (première chaîne)
   a diffusé un improbable sujet, parmi les plus extrêmes qu’elle ait
   créés depuis un an. Il synthétise en une minute trente de complotisme
   raciste la plus grande terreur brandie par la propagande : celle de la
   fin de la civilisation occidentale.

   Dans une pirouette mentale acrobatique, mais assénée sur le ton de
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-56">
<text>
   International

Etats-Unis : un homme politique russe inculpé pour des opérations illégales
de propagande

   Alexandre Babakov, député à la Douma, est soupçonné d’avoir mener des
   ses collaborateurs ont également été inculpés.
--
   politique russe, Alexandre Babakov, déjà visé dans le passé par des
   sanctions internationales, et deux de ses collaborateurs ont été
   inculpés jeudi aux Etats-Unis pour des opérations illégales d’influence
   et de propagande hostiles à l’Ukraine, ont annoncé les procureurs à New
   York.

   À lire aussiSuivez en direct l'évolution de la situation sur la guerre
--
   pour l’intégration internationale », pour mener leurs opérations depuis
   2012, avant la guerre en Ukraine.

propagande au Congrès

   Concrètement, il leur est par exemple reproché, en mars 2017, d’avoir
   tenté de contacter « au moins un membre du Congrès américain » pour lui
--
   D’après la justice américaine, ils auraient tenté de recruter au moins
   un citoyen américain pour les aider et « cherché à coopter des
   politiciens américains et européens » pour leurs opérations d’influence
   et de propagande. « L’acte d’inculpation démontre que les actions
   illégitimes de la Russie contre l’Ukraine vont au-delà du champ de
   bataille », a assuré le procureur Damian Williams.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-57">
<text>
   International

Russie : une journaliste de la télévision publique lève un coin de voile sur
la «propagande»

   Correspondante à Paris pour l’Europe d’une chaîne de télévision
   publique, Zhanna Agalakova dit avoir démissionné le 3 mars, une semaine
   après l’invasion de l’Ukraine. Elle souhaite que les Russes l’entendent
   et qu’ils «apprennent à distinguer la propagande».
   Par Le Parisien avec AFP
   Le 22 mars 2022 à 17h55

--
   « Manipulation », bribes de réel tordues pour former des « mensonges »,
   référence fallacieuse aux nazis… Une journaliste russe d’une grande
   chaîne de télévision, qui a démissionné à cause de la guerre en
   Ukraine, a donné à voir de l’intérieur mardi la « propagande » qui
   règne dans son pays.

   « Je veux que la Russie m’entende, que les gens apprennent à distinguer
   la propagande (…), arrêtent d’être zombifiés », s’est justifiée Zhanna
   Agalakova lors d’une conférence de presse organisée par l’organisation
   de défense des journalistes RSF (Reporters sans frontières) à Paris.

--
   proposition d’asile de Macron

   « Ces derniers jours, nous observons des remous à l’intérieur de ces
   médias de propagande », avec « un certain nombre de démissions,
   difficiles à chiffrer », a déclaré le secrétaire général de RSF,
   Christophe Deloire, aux côté de Zhanna Agalakova.

--
     🔴Zhanna Agalakova, journaliste russe, a démissionné de la première
     chaîne russe @channelone_rus en réaction à l’offensive en #Ukraine.
     Avec RSF elle a décidé de briser le silence et de raconter son
     expérience dans l'un des médias de propagande du Kremlin. #Thread
     pic.twitter.com/ZqqtK9Fc7W
     — RSF (@RSF_inter) March 22, 2022

--
   mot nazi, on n’a qu’une seule réaction : il faut détruire ça. C’est une
   manipulation, un énorme mensonge ».

   À lire aussiL’Ukraine «nazie» ? Pourquoi la propagande de Poutine est
   «un non-sens complet»

   Zhanna Agalakova ne travaille plus sur le sol russe depuis 2005. Après
--
   les choses se sont compliquées en 2014, avec le début du conflit
   russo-ukrainien en Crimée et dans la région du Donbass. A l’époque,
   elle était correspondante à New-York. « Je n’étais plus à l’abri de la
   propagande. Je ne devais parler que de choses négatives au sujet des
   Etats-Unis, comme par exemple des enfants adoptés maltraités »,
   a-t-elle expliqué.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-58">
<text>
   Toutes les actualités locales
   Sports,Football

Iran : arrestation d’un célèbre footballeur pour «propagande» contre l’État

   Voria Ghafouri, 35 ans et figure du football iranien, a été arrêté par
   les autorités iraniennes.
--
   Ce jeudi, c’est un célèbre footballeur local qui a été arrêté par les
   autorités iraniennes : Voria Ghafouri, attaquant du Foolad FC en D1
   iranienne, accusé d’avoir « insulté et sali la réputation de l’équipe
   nationale et de s’être livré à de la propagande » contre l’Etat, a
   affirmé l’agence de presse iranienne Fars.

   Il a été arrêté après une séance d’entraînement de son équipe, basée 
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-59">
<text>

   International

Facebook : Meta condamné à 50 200 euros d’amende en Russie pour « propagande
» LGBT

   Le groupe américain Meta, anciennement Facebook, a refusé de supprimer
--
   REUTERS/Dado Ruvic/Illustration/File Photo


   La loi contre la « propagande » homosexuelle en Russie fait une
   nouvelle victime. La justice russe a condamné ce mardi le groupe
   américain Meta (ex-Facebook) à quatre millions de roubles d’amende,
   soit 50 200 euros au taux actuel, pour n’avoir pas supprimé des
--
   Cette pression s’est encore renforcée depuis le début de l’opération
   militaire russe en Ukraine qui a vu de nombreux sites indépendants et
   de l’opposition être interdits. La Russie a adopté en 2013 une loi
   contre la « propagande » homosexuelle auprès des mineurs, qui a servi
   de prétexte pour interdire des marches des fiertés et l’affichage de
   drapeaux arc-en-ciel.
   Dans la rubrique
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-6">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Lutte contre la désinformation en ligne :
   Bruxelles déplore que Twitter opte pour « la confrontation »


--
   Retour à l’accueil

   Société L’UE fâchée après le départ de Twitter d’un code sur la
   désinformation



--
    1. Accueil
    2. Société

Lutte contre la désinformation en ligne : Bruxelles déplore que Twitter opte
pour « la confrontation »

   fake news Le réseau social dirigé par Elon Musk a décidé de quitter le
   code de bonnes pratiques de l’Union européenne contre la désinformation
   en ligne


--

   Twitter épinglé par l’Union européenne. Le réseau social a choisi « la
   confrontation » en décidant de quitter le code de bonnes pratiques de
   l’UE contre la désinformation en ligne, a déploré lundi la
   vice-présidente de la Commission européenne Vera Jourova. La Commission
   a annoncé il y a dix jours que le réseau social américain contrôlé par
   Elon Musk se retirait de ce code volontaire lancé en 2018, qui contient
--
   choisi la confrontation », a déclaré devant la presse Vera Jourova,
   chargée des valeurs et de la transparence au sein de la Commission.
   Au-delà des engagements volontaires actuellement en place, la lutte
   contre la désinformation deviendra une obligation légale dans le cadre
   de la DSA (la loi européenne sur les services numériques) en vigueur 
   partir du 25 août.

--
   Le départ de Twitter n’est pas une surprise pour Bruxelles : depuis le
   rachat du réseau social il y a plus de six mois, le milliardaire Elon
   Musk a assoupli la modération des contenus problématiques et semble
   avoir amplifié la voix de propagateurs notoires de désinformation sur
   la plateforme. Le code européen de bonnes pratiques contre la
   désinformation en ligne regroupe une trentaine de signataires, des
   géants comme Meta, Google, Microsoft ou TikTok, mais aussi de plus
   petites plateformes, ainsi que des professionnels de la publicité, des
   fact-checkeurs et des ONG. Les signataires du code avaient eux-mêmes
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-60">
<text>

   International

«Ne croyez pas la propagande» : le journal de la principale chaîne russe
interrompu par une manifestante

   Marina Ovsiannikova, qui avait filmé une vidéo avant son action pour la
--

   Alors que la célèbre présentatrice Ekaterina Andreïeva est en train de
   parler, Marina Ovsiannikova surgit derrière elle avec une pancarte sur
   laquelle on peut lire « Non à la guerre. Ne croyez pas la propagande.
   On vous ment, ici ». « Les Russes sont contre la guerre », peut-on
   encore lire sur la pancarte sur laquelle le drapeau de l’Ukraine et
   celui de la Russie sont dessinés. Imperturbable, la présentatrice
--
   Marina Ovsiannikova explique que son père étant ukrainien et sa mère
   russe, elle n’arrive pas à voir les deux pays comme ennemis. «
   Malheureusement, j’ai travaillé pour Pervy Kanal ces dernières années,
   faisant de la propagande pour le Kremlin. J’en ai très honte
   aujourd’hui », dit-elle. « J’ai honte d’avoir permis que des mensonges
   soient diffusés à la télévision, honte d’avoir permis que le peuple
   russe soit zombifié », ajoute-t-elle.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-61">
<text>
   International

Iran : le Français détenu depuis mai est poursuivi pour «espionnage» et
«propagande»

   Jusque-là identifié par son seul prénom, le Français détenu en Iran
   depuis le printemps dernier serait dans le viseur de la justice
   iranienne pour « espionnage » et « propagande contre le système »
   iranien.
   Par Le Parisien avec AFP
   Le 15 mars 2021 à 12h19
--
   mois de février, s’appelle Benjamin Brière.

   Ce touriste a comparu devant un tribunal pour des accusations d’ «
   espionnage » et de « propagande contre le système » politique de la
   République islamique, indique maître Dehghan dans un tweet. Ce dernier
   laisse par ailleurs entendre que le procès du Français touche à sa fin.

--
   s’occupe effectivement de la défense de Benjamin Brière.

   « La plaidoirie en défense de Benjamin Brière pour les deux chefs
   d’accusation d’espionnage et de propagande contre le système a eu lieu
   », indique maître Dehghan. Son message est accompagné de deux photos.

     آخرین دفاع از #بنجامین_بریر برای دو‌ اتهام جاسوسی و تبلیغ علیه نظا
--
   Accusé « d’espionnage (pour) photographies de zones interdites par ce
   touriste français », selon les précisions de l’avocat dans un style
   télégraphique, Benjamin Brière, qui serait âgé de 35 ans, est également
   accusé de « propagande ». Il aurait selon maître Dehghan « posé la
   question (sur les réseaux sociaux) de savoir pourquoi le voile
   islamique est ‘obligatoire’ en République islamique (d’Iran) mais
   ‘facultatif’ dans d’autres pays musulmans ».
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-62">
<text>
   Faits divers

Allemagne : les forces spéciales de la police de Francfort dissoutes pour
propagande nazie

   Vingt policiers dont dix-huit membres des commandos d’intervention
   spéciaux de la région de Hesse échangeaient sur des forums des photos
--

   Le spectre du nazisme continue de hanter l’Allemagne. L’unité des
   forces spéciales de la police de Francfort va être dissoute après la
   mise au jour de groupes de discussion diffusant de la propagande
   néonazie entre certains de ses membres.

   « La conduite inacceptable de plusieurs agents et de leurs supérieurs »
--

   Croix gammées, portraits de Hitler, insultes à caractère xénophobe…
   Dix-sept d’entre eux sont accusés d’avoir diffusé des contenus incitant
   à la haine raciale ou partagé des images de propagande néonazie. Trois
   autres, des officiers, sont accusés d’entrave à la justice ; en tant
   que supérieurs, ils auraient dû arrêter ou sanctionner les discussions
   dont ils étaient informés et ne l’ont pas fait.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-63">
<text>
   Appuyez sur la touche échap pour fermer la recherche.


               Une campagne-choc contre la propagande djihadiste

   VIDÉO. Le gouvernement diffuse un film qui dissèque les arguments
   utilisés par les réseaux terroristes pour convaincre les jeunes de
--
   Le Point.fr
   Publié le 28/01/2015 à 10h48

   contre la propagande djihadiste. Le gouvernement a mis en ligne un site
   destiné à lutter contre la propagande djihadiste. © Capture écran Le
   Point.fr

   Temps de lecture : 1 min
--
   loin de chez toi. Ils te disent : Rejoins-nous et viens aider les
   enfants syriens. En réalité, tu seras complice de massacres de civils."
   Après les attentats de Paris, le gouvernement se mobilise contre la
   propagande djihadiste. Un clip vidéo diffusé mercredi décrypte les
   arguments utilisés pour manipuler les jeunes Français et les convaincre
   de rejoindre les rangs de l'organisation État islamique : la promesse
   d'un monde pur, d'un combat héroïque, d'une juste lutte contre l'armée
--
   amenés à participer à des opérations criminelles et peuvent aussi être
   séquestrés et souvent maltraités. De plus en plus de jeunes filles ou
   de jeunes femmes sont victimes de violences sur place. Certains,
   découvrant la réalité derrière la propagande, veulent rentrer en France
   et en sont empêchés. D'autres en viennent à participer aux actions
   terroristes, avec toutes les conséquences pénales, mais aussi
   psychologiques, que cette barbarie implique." Soixante-dix Français ou
--
Commentaires (37)

       Si quelqu'un comme moi n'accorde aucun crédit à une annonce ou une
       propagande gouvernementale ! Que dire d'un futur djihadsite
       il doit être mort de rire
       Le problème c'est que la Syrie vit une situation tragique et ceux
       qui sont partis savent très bien que la situation sera très dure,
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-64">
<text>
   Appuyez sur la touche échap pour fermer la recherche.


                 La propagande de l'EI en direction des sourds

   Dans une vidéo diffusée dimanche, l'organisation terroriste s'adresse
   pour la première fois en langue des signes aux aspirants djihadistes.
--
   Temps de lecture : 1 min
       L'article a été ajouté à vos favoris

   Le groupe État islamique étend sa propagande. Dans une vidéo mise en
   ligne dimanche 8 mars avec des sous-titres anglais et arabes, l'EI met
   en scène pour la première fois deux combattants sourds, ou prétendus
   tels, qui s'adressent à la caméra en langue des signes. Les deux
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-65">
<text>



Kim Jong-un sur un cheval blanc dans une nouvelle vidéo de propagande

   Publié le 03/02/2022 à 12h02

   Temps de lecture : 2 min
   Galopant à travers les montagnes sur un cheval blanc, Kim Jong Un est
   la vedette d'une nouvelle vidéo de propagande nord-coréenne, qui vante
   son leadership économique mais passe sous silence une récente série de
   lancements de missiles. Le documentaire publié cette semaine met en
   lumière la lutte de Kim pour redresser l'économie malmenée du pays,
--

   Je m'abonne Tous les contenus du Point en illimité
   Vous lisez actuellement : Kim Jong-un sur un cheval blanc dans une
   nouvelle vidéo de propagande
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-66">
<text>

   International

La Corée du Nord a préparé des millions de tracts de propagande pour le Sud

   Des dissidents ont récemment envoyé depuis le Sud des ballons
   transportant des messages de propagande.
   Par Le Parisien avec AFP
   Le 22 juin 2020 à 10h44

--
   Corée du Sud. AFP/KCNA via KNS


   La Corée du Nord a préparé des millions de tracts de propagande qu'elle
   compte envoyer au Sud. Pour ce faire elle utilisera une escadrille de
   milliers de ballons.

   Le régime nord-coréen a multiplié ces dernières semaines les attaques
   verbales contre Séoul, la capitale du Sud, critiquant notamment le fait
   que des transfuges nord-coréens basés au Sud envoient en direction du
   Nord de la propagande anti-Pyongyang, la capitale du Nord. Après avoir
   rompu les canaux officiels de communication, la Corée du Nord a détruit
   la semaine dernière le bureau de liaison qui avait été ouvert en
   septembre 2018 juste au nord de la Zone démilitarisée (DMZ), et était
--
   négociations internationales sur la dénucléarisation sont au point
   mort.

   Officiellement, l'objet de la colère nord-coréenne est la propagande
   contre le leader Kim Jong Un envoyée depuis le Sud par des dissidents
   au moyen de ballons dans les airs. L'agence officielle nord-coréenne
   KCNA a indiqué lundi que la Corée du Nord s'apprêtait à répliquer
--

   Nord et Sud avaient auparavant coutume de s'envoyer ce genre de tracts.
   Mais les deux parties étaient convenues de cesser ces opérations de
   propagande, y compris les diffusions de message au moyen de
   haut-parleurs à la frontière, lors du premier sommet entre Moon et Kim
   en 2018. Les tracts ont parfois été à l'origine d'une montée des
   tensions, comme en octobre 2014, quand le Nord a ouvert le feu sur des
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-67">
<text>

   Toute l'actualité de votre région en continu sur notre application

Manifestations en Iran : deux journalistes accusées de « propagande »

    Lecture 1 min
   Accueil International
   Manifestations en Iran : deux journalistes accusées de « propagande »
   Des exemplaires du journal Hammihan, avec sur sa couverture un dessin
   des deux journalistes, Niloufar Hamedi et Elaheh Mohammadi, dans un
   kiosque de la capitale iranienne Téhéran, le 30 octobre 2022. © Crédit
--
   de leurs droits »

   Deux journalistes iraniennes, en détention depuis plus d’un mois, ont
   été accusées de « propagande » contre la République islamique, a
   annoncé mardi l’Autorité judiciaire dans un contexte de manifestations
   de protestation qui se poursuivent depuis la mi-septembre.

   Niloufar Hamedi et Elaheh Mohammadi « sont en détention provisoire pour
   propagande contre le système et complot en vue d’agir contre la
   sécurité nationale », a déclaré le porte-parole de la justice, Massoud
   Sétayechi. Arrêtée le 20 septembre, la photojournaliste Niloufar
   Hamedi, 30 ans, du journal Shargh, s’était rendue à l’hôpital où Mahsa
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-68">
<text>
   Toute l'actualité de votre région en continu sur notre application

Des rats et des serpents en dessins animés : comment la Russie mène une
propagande anti-française en Afrique

    Lecture 1 min
   Accueil International Afrique
   Des rats et des serpents en dessins animés : comment la Russie mène une
   propagande anti-française en Afrique Des vidéos pro-russes circulent en
   ce moment sur les réseaux, mettant en scène des zombies colonialistes
   aux ordres d’Emmanuel Macron, lui-même représenté par un rat agressif.

--
   Sur le même sujet

   Guerre en Ukraine : la Russie utilise une « usine de trolls » pour
   relayer sa propagande
   Guerre en Ukraine : la Russie utilise une « usine de trolls » pour
   relayer sa propagande
   Les Britanniques ont apporté les preuves de la présence d’une « usine 
   trolls » dans un bâtiment de Saint-Pétersbourg

--
   brandissant des drapeaux pro-russes pendant l’Open d’Australie de
   tennis alors que les drapeaux russes sont interdits lors du tournoi

   Cette propagande s’avère d’autant plus efficace que la France a tardé 
   prendre la mesure du phénomène. « Il est facile de critiquer la France
   parce qu’elle ne se défend pas très bien et qu’elle n’a pas tout à fait
   pris conscience qu’une guerre informationnelle se joue », pointe le
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-69">
<text>

   Toute l'actualité de votre région en continu sur notre application

Covid-19 en Chine : de « mortel » à « pas si grave », comment la propagande
fait volte-face

    Lecture 2 min
   Accueil International Chine
   Covid-19 en Chine : de « mortel » à « pas si grave », comment
   la propagande fait volte-face Les médias chinois pointent déjà des
   boucs émissaires : les fonctionnaires locaux trop zélés et les sociétés
   de tests Covid © Crédit photo : JADE GAO/AFP

--
   centres spécialisés, au confort aléatoire. Un changement radical par
   rapport à la norme en vigueur jusque-là.

   « Il s’agit d’une propagande officielle pour préparer la population 
   plus d’assouplissements et donner au gouvernement les moyens de se
   retirer (de la politique zéro-Covid) », explique Willy Lam, expert en
   politique chinoise basé à Hong Kong. Les médias permettent de préparer
--
Le bien de la population

   Pour le gouvernement chinois, effectuer une volte-face après trois ans
   de propagande anxiogène autour du virus n’est pas chose aisée. Mais il
   semble déjà retomber sur ses pieds, affirmant agir ainsi pour le bien
   de la population.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-7">
<text>
   Afis facebook Afis twitter Afis Youtube Afis Android Afis ios Afis RSS
   Mon compte

   Accueil / IA génératives : un risque accru de désinformation ?

IA génératives : un risque accru de désinformation ?

   Publié en ligne le 29 septembre 2023 - Intelligence Artificielle -
   IA génératives : un risque accru de désinformation ?

   Les systèmes d’intelligence artificielle génératives suscitent de
   nombreuses craintes et interrogations, tant le contenu généré est
   saisissant de réalisme. S’il devient encore plus difficile de
   distinguer le vrai du faux, la désinformation ne risque-t-elle pas de
   se propager encore plus largement ? On peut imaginer la prolifération
   de vidéos mettant en scène un homme politique, un artiste, ou tout
   simplement soi-même ou un proche, avec un contenu factice, une voix
--
   avec les technologies existantes, deviendraient ainsi à la portée de
   tous et pourraient être déployées à très grande échelle.

Un risque de désinformation accru ?

   Soulignons en préalable que le problème rencontré par ceux qui veulent
   propager des fausses informations n’a jamais été la création de
--
   les faisant apparaître plus « humaines ». Elles produisent également
   des messages plus crédibles, plus vraisemblables, qui se diffuseront
   plus facilement. Cependant, le support principal pour diffuser la
   désinformation reste Internet et les réseaux sociaux tels qu’ils
   existent déjà.
   Les Tricheurs (détail), Valentin de Boulogne (1591-1632)

   Le problème ne date pas d’aujourd’hui, comme en atteste, par exemple,
   la proportion de faux comptes ou de doublons sur les réseaux sociaux
   au spam et à la désinformation [2]) ainsi que toutes les controverses
   relatives à la régulation et l’autorégulation face à des contenus
   problématiques.

   Par ailleurs, ne l’oublions pas, le succès de la désinformation dépend
   également des attentes des personnes visées. Une vidéo truquée
   rencontrera son public si elle est crédible aux yeux des personnes
   ciblées et si elle correspond à leur état d’esprit et à leurs
   aspirations.

   La désinformation n’a attendu ni Internet ni les réseaux sociaux pour
   se propager à très grande échelle. Certaines « théories du complot »^ 1
   une époque où les ordinateurs n’existaient pas. On pense par exemple au
   « protocole des sages de Sion », un texte inventé par la police
--
   « concerné », objectivement ou subjectivement, par les messages
   véhiculés [4].

   Enfin, ajoutons que combattre la désinformation par des faits validés
   suppose que ceux qui la propagent ou qui y sont réceptifs sont
   sensibles aux arguments et souhaitent confronter leurs croyances. Ce
   n’est malheureusement pas toujours le cas. Les controverses sur la
   vaccination lors de la crise sanitaire l’illustrent.

   Internet et les réseaux sociaux ont révolutionné le champ de la
   désinformation. Ils ont en particulier rendu planétaires des phénomènes
   qui restaient le plus souvent locaux. De plus, la vitesse de
   propagation des fausses informations s’est radicalement accrue. Dans ce
   contexte, les IA génératives pourront apporter leur contribution, c’est
--
   importe cependant d’examiner comment il est possible de se prémunir de
   leurs usages spécifiques quand ils sont néfastes.

Se prémunir contre les dangers de la désinformation

   Avec leur perfectionnement, les nouvelles technologies d’intelligence
   artificielle rendent plus difficile la détection des fausses
--
   Une certaine autorégulation s’est mise en place. ChatGPT, par exemple,
   refuse de répondre à certaines requêtes ou accompagne certaines
   réponses de mises en garde. Pour illustrer, en 2022, vous pouviez
   demander à ChatGPT de proposer un plan de désinformation afin de
   convaincre des parents de ne pas vacciner leurs enfants, en précisant
   le public visé (par exemple « mères californiennes adeptes
   d’alimentation saine » [12]). Un plan détaillé, agrémenté de références
   scientifiques, était proposé. Le même essai réalisé en juin 2023
   conduit à la réponse suivante : « Je ne peux pas élaborer un plan de
   désinformation visant à tromper les parents ou à propager de fausses
   informations. En tant qu’intelligence artificielle, mon objectif est de
   fournir des informations précises et fiables basées sur les
   connaissances disponibles. » Le système présente ensuite des
--
Les systèmes d’intelligence artificielle pour la génération d’images

   Le 5 octobre 2023
   IA génératives : un risque accru de désinformation ?

IA génératives : un risque accru de désinformation ?

   Le 29 septembre 2023
   Intelligence artificielle et controverse sur la fin de l'humanité
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-70">
<text>
   Toute l'actualité de votre région en continu sur notre application

Guerre Israël-Hamas : Telegram, messagerie des pires organisations et
propagandes du monde

    Lecture 3 min
   Accueil Sud Ouest Éco Réseaux sociaux
   Guerre Israël-Hamas : Telegram, messagerie des pires organisations et
   propagandes du monde Depuis l’attaque du 7 octobre contre Israël, les
   images du conflit pullulent sur Telegram © Crédit photo : capture
   d’écran Telegram

--
   campus des universités les plus prestigieuses des États-Unis
   Sur le même sujet

   désinformation : la commission européenne ouvre une enquête visant X
   désinformation : la commission européenne ouvre une enquête visant X
   Il s’agit de la première procédure lancée dans le cadre de la nouvelle
   législation européenne sur les services numériques (DSA), deux jours
   après une lettre d’avertissement adressé au réseau social d’Elon Musk
--
   Guerre Israël-Hamas : les réseaux sociaux, l’un des fronts du conflit ?
   Guerre Israël-Hamas : les réseaux sociaux, l’un des fronts du conflit ?
   Les événements d’ampleur déclenchent toujours un tsunami de
   désinformation mais la vitesse de propagation des fausses nouvelles
   consécutives à la guerre entre Israël et le Hamas est sans précédent

Imperméable à la modération
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-71">
<text>

   Toute l'actualité de votre région en continu sur notre application

« Un énorme mensonge » : un rouage de la machine de propagande chinoise
témoigne

    Lecture 2 min
   Accueil International Chine
   « Un énorme mensonge » : un rouage de la machine de propagande chinoise
   témoigne Zeng Jiajun a fait partie de l’équipe qui mettait au point des
   algorithmes pour filtrer les contenus jugés indésirables par Bytedance,
   maison mère de TikTok © Crédit photo : JOSH EDELSON/AFP
--
   l’anonymat. « Mais au fond, je savais que cela ne correspondait pas 
   mes valeurs éthiques », explique-t-il depuis la Silicon Valley, berceau
   de la tech en Californie, où il vit désormais. Son témoignage, celui
   d’un maillon de l’appareil de propagande chinois, est extrêmement rare.

Le choc de Tiananmen
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-72">
<text>

   Toute l'actualité de votre région en continu sur notre application

La Russie durcit sa loi anti « propagande LGBT » pour se protéger « des
ténèbres répandues » par l’Occident

    Lecture 1 min
   Accueil International Russie
   La Russie durcit sa loi anti « propagande LGBT » pour se protéger « des
   ténèbres répandues » par l’Occident Le président russe, Vladimir
   Poutine, délivre un discours devant le Parlement de Saint-Pétersbourg.

--
   une bataille d’idées et de valeurs contre l’Occident

   Jeudi, les députés russes ont voté en première lecture un durcissement
   de la loi controversée réprimant la « propagande LGBT », nouveau signe
   du renforcement de la ligne conservatrice dans le pays en pleine
   Douma d’État ont adopté à l’unanimité la première lecture des
   amendements à la législation interdisant la promotion des relations
--
   Parlement, le Conseil de la Fédération, l’étudie et qu’elle puisse être
   soumise pour signature au président Vladimir Poutine, ce qui constitue
   en règle générale une simple formalité. La loi de 2013 punissant la
   « propagande LGBT » auprès des mineurs se voit ainsi renforcée par une
   interdiction du « déni des valeurs familiales » et de la « promotion
   des orientations sexuelles non traditionnelles » auprès des adultes
   également. Ces interdictions concernent « les médias, l’internet, la
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-73">
<text>
   Toute l'actualité de votre région en continu sur notre application

Ouïghours : pourquoi la visite de l’ONU en Chine se retrouve récupérée par la
propagande chinoise

    Lecture 2 min
   Accueil International
   Ouïghours : pourquoi la visite de l’ONU en Chine se retrouve récupérée
   par la propagande chinoise La Haute-Commissaire aux droits de l’Homme
   Michelle Bachelet. © Crédit photo : AFP

   Par SudOuest.fr avec AFP
   Publié le 27/05/2022 à 15h58.

   Accusé d’avoir interné plus d’un million de Ouïghours, la machine de
   propagande chinoise a jusqu’ici totalement récupéré la visite de
   Michelle Bachelet, cheffe de l’ONUE pour les droits de l’Homme

   « De la poudre aux yeux » : la machine de propagande chinoise a
   jusqu’ici totalement récupéré la visite que mène en Chine la cheffe de
   l’ONU pour les droits de l’Homme, déplorent des militants pour la
   défense des Ouïghours.
--
   ni la Chine n’ont en tout cas mentionné spécifiquement le Xinjiang dans
   leurs déclarations.

     « Ils l’ont utilisée pour leur propagande »

   Un militant ouïghour basé en Norvège, Abduweli Ayup, se dit « déçu »
   que Michelle Bachelet ait semblé permettre à Pékin de « mal
   interpréter » ses propos. « Ils l’ont utilisée pour leur propagande »,
   déclare-t-il.

   Les médias chinois ont également diffusé d’abondantes images de
--

   Pékin l’a souligné dès le début de la semaine : la visite de Mme
   Bachelet n’est pas une enquête mais une occasion de « clarifier la
   désinformation » dont la Chine s’estime victime.

   « Elle doit avoir le courage politique et l’intégrité de s’exprimer
   lorsque ses paroles et sa visite sont déformées », estime Steve Tsang,
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-74">
<text>
Guerre entre le Hamas et Israël : "La bataille de l'émotion est un élément
central de cette guerre de l'information", selon un historien

   David Colon, spécialiste de propagande, alerte sur la vulnérabilité de
   nos sociétés face aux opérations de désinformation, notamment de la
   part du Hamas.
   Article rédigé par France Info
   Radio France
   Publié le 23/10/2023 10:16
   Temps de lecture : 3 min
   Les réseaux sociaux sont au coeur de la bataille de désinformation
   entre Israël et le Hamas. Photo d'illustration. (JONATHAN RAA /
   NURPHOTO) Les réseaux sociaux sont au coeur de la bataille de
   désinformation entre Israël et le Hamas. Photo d'illustration.

   "La bataille de l'émotion est un élément central de cette guerre de
   l'information", souligne sur franceinfo David Colon, chercheur au
   Centre d'histoire de Sciences-Po et auteur de "La Guerre de
   l'information. Les Etats à la conquête de nos esprits", aux éditions
   Tallandier.
   Le spécialiste de propagande et des techniques de communication en
   temps de guerre alerte sur la vulnérabilité de nos sociétés face aux
   terroriste est en guerre contre Israël depuis le 7 octobre.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-75">
<text>

Guerre en Ukraine : à la veille de la rentrée scolaire en Russie, Amnesty
International condamne le nouveau manuel d'histoire russe, qui "regorge de
clichés de propagande

   Amnesty International alerte ce vendredi sur le contenu du nouveau
   manuel d'histoire russe que des lycéens vont avoir en main cette année
--

   Amnesty International affirme que ce sont les élèves des lycées faisant
   leur rentrée au 1er septembre qui sont concernés : "Le manuel - qui
   regorge de clichés de propagande officielle russe et qui tente de
   justifier les actions illégales de la Russie depuis l'annexion de la
   Crimée en 2014 jusqu'à l'invasion de l'Ukraine en 2022 - sera une
   partie obligatoire du programme".
--
   en tant que "puissance occupante" de plusieurs régions de l'Ukraine
   qu'elle contrôle, Moscou doit donc "respecter, protéger et réaliser le
   droit à l'Education et ne pas violer ce droit en endoctrinant les
   élèves avec de la propagande.
   Voir les commentaires

   Partager : l'article sur les réseaux sociaux
--


   lle_de_la_rentree_scolaire_en_russie_amnesty_international_condamne_le_
   nouveau_manuel_d_histoire_russe_qui_regorge_de_cliches_de_propagande__6
   036182]

   L'application France Info
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-76">
<text>

   Pékin

Xinjiang: la visite de l'ONU récupérée par la propagande chinoise

Pékin - "De la poudre aux yeux": la machine de propagande chinoise a
jusqu'ici totalement récupéré la visite que mène en Chine la cheffe de l'ONU
pour les droits de l'Homme, déplorent des militants pour la défense des
Ouïghours.
--
   Michelle Bachelet ait semblé permettre à Pékin de "mal interpréter" ses
   propos.

   "Ils l'ont utilisée pour leur propagande, déclare-t-il à l'AFP.

   Les médias chinois ont également diffusé d'abondantes images de
   l'ex-présidente chilienne se voyant remettre un recueil de citations de
--

   Pékin l'a souligné dès le début de la semaine: la visite de Mme
   Bachelet n'est pas une enquête mais une occasion de "clarifier la
   désinformation dont la Chine s'estime victime.

   "Elle doit avoir le courage politique et l'intégrité de s'exprimer
   lorsque ses paroles et sa visite sont déformées", estime Steve Tsang,
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-77">
<text>

   Paris

Russie: une journaliste lève un coin de voile sur la propagande

Paris - "Manipulation", bribes de réel tordues pour former des "mensonges",
référence fallacieuse aux nazis... Une journaliste russe d'une grande chaîne
de télévision, qui a démissionné à cause de la guerre en Ukraine, a donné 
voir de l'intérieur mardi la propagande qui règne dans son pays.

   La journaliste TV russe Zhanna Agalakova à Paris, le 22 mars 2022

--
   Partager cet article

   "Je veux que la Russie m'entende, que les gens apprennent à distinguer
   la propagande (...), arrêtent d'être zombifiés", s'est justifiée Zhanna
   Agalakova lors d'une conférence de presse organisée par l'organisation
   de défense des journalistes RSF (Reporters sans frontières) à Paris.

--
   et en brandissant une pancarte pour dénoncer l'offensive en Ukraine.

   "Ces derniers jours, nous observons des remous à l'intérieur de ces
   médias de propagande, avec "un certain nombre de démissions,
   difficiles à chiffrer", a déclaré le secrétaire général de RSF,
   Christophe Deloire, aux côté de Mme Agalakova.

--
   conflit russo-ukrainien en Crimée et dans la région du Donbass. A
   l'époque, elle était correspondante à New York.

   "Je n'étais plus à l'abri de la propagande. Je ne devais parler que de
   choses négatives au sujet des Etats-Unis, comme par exemple des enfants
   adoptés maltraités", a-t-elle expliqué.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-78">
<text>

   Portrait

Ukraine : "Donbass Girl", cette ex-militaire qui diffuse la propagande de
Poutine aux Etats-Unis

Agée de 37 ans, Sarah Bils est une ancienne militaire vivant à Washington,
--
   américaine, comme le révèle le Wall Street Journal, le 16 avril.

   Agée de 37 ans, Sarah Bils, qui vit actuellement à Washington, s’est
   fait connaître pour son rôle actif de désinformation depuis le début de
   la guerre en Ukraine, mais aussi pour avoir glorifié l’armée russe et
   le groupe paramilitaire Wagner. Le 5 avril dernier, le compte "Donbass
   Devushka Telegram" a également publié quatre documents américains
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-79">
<text>

   Islamabad

Afghanistan : propagande hyperactive des talibans à l'heure des pourparlers
de paix

Islamabad - Jalaluddin Haqqani, "grand réformateur et conquérant"
d'Afghanistan. Le documentaire élégiaque dédié au fondateur du réseau
éponyme, accusé des pires atrocités, souligne combien la propagande des
talibans a progressé et évolué : ils se dépeignent désormais comme des
administrateurs compétents au moment où ils négocient l'avenir du pays 
Doha.
--
   Sur cette photo prise le 23 octobre 2020, un homme regarde un
   documentaire élégiaque produit par les talibans sur Jalaluddin Haqqani,
   le fondateur du réseau éponyme, accusé des pires atrocités. Ce film
   souligne combien la propagande des insurgés a progressé et évolué : ils
   se dépeignent désormais comme des gouvernants compétents, alors qu'ils
   négocient le futur du pays à Doha.

   Sur cette photo prise le 23 octobre 2020, un homme regarde un
   documentaire élégiaque produit par les talibans sur Jalaluddin Haqqani,
   le fondateur du réseau éponyme, accusé des pires atrocités. Ce film
   souligne combien la propagande des insurgés a progressé et évolué : ils
   se dépeignent désormais comme des gouvernants compétents, alors qu'ils
   négocient le futur du pays à Doha.

--

   Puis des images de plus en plus léchées sont apparues, parfois filmées
   par des drones. Les talibans n'ont toutefois "jamais été aussi bons que
   l'Etat islamique", dont la propagande a séduit des milliers jihadistes
   à travers le monde, ajoute-t-il.

   - Record -
--
   analystes.

   Alors que les deux parties négociaient ce texte, Al-Emara, leur
   principal organe de propagande, a publié un nombre record de 319 vidéos
   en 2019, soit près de 60% de plus que l'année précédente, et près de
   trois fois leur total de 2016, d'après une étude d'Intecenter, une
   entreprise américaine de renseignement antiterroriste.
--
   population" et d'"accroître les patrouilles" contre "les voleurs et les
   corrompus".

   Reste à comprendre si la propagande touche sa cible, alors que beaucoup
   d'Afghans, notamment des villes, craignent un retour au pouvoir des
   insurgés au terme de ces négociations, quand leur court règne a été
   terni par de multiples exactions. Ces derniers mois, ils multiplient en
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-8">
<text>

   Réseaux sociaux

L'Union européenne s'inquiète de la désinformation russe et épingle Twitter

   Le 27/09/2023 à 17:08

   Les bons plans black friday
   Désormais rebaptisé X, le réseau social est le mauvais élève européen
   en termes de désinformation, notamment en provenance de la Russie.

   Bruxelles s'est inquiété, mardi 26 septembre, du taux de désinformation
   sur le réseau social X (anciennement Twitter) et a appelé l'ensemble
   des grandes plateformes à mieux lutter contre les manipulations russes,
   craignant qu'elles s'intensifient avant les élections européennes.
--
   La vice-présidente de la Commission européenne, Vera Jourova, a épinglé
   les mauvais résultats de X lors de tests, durant une conférence de
   presse. Elle présentait les rapports fournis par des grandes
   plateformes en ligne décrivant leurs efforts contre la désinformation
   sur une période de six mois, dans le cadre du code de bonnes pratiques
   de l'UE.

--
   de plus petites plateformes, ainsi que des professionnels de la
   publicité, des fact-checkeurs et des ONG.

   Pour mesurer la désinformation en ligne, les signataires ont créé des
   indicateurs et lancé une phase de test dans trois Etats membres
   qui a quitté le code de bonnes pratiques en mai, est celle qui affiche
   "le taux le plus élevé de fausses informations et de désinformation
   dans ses publications", a souligné Vera Jourova.

   Le propriétaire du réseau social, Elon Musk, "sait qu'il n'est pas tiré
--
   DSA).

   Le DSA contraint les plateformes à déployer des efforts contre la
   désinformation sous peine d'amendes pouvant atteindre 6% de leur
   chiffre d'affaires mondial.

   Mme Jourova a demandé à toutes les plateformes d'intensifier la lutte
   contre la désinformation russe avant des élections nationales en
   Slovaquie et en Pologne, ainsi que dans la perspective des élections
   européennes en juin prochain. "L'Etat russe s'est engagé dans une
   guerre des idées pour polluer notre espace informationnel avec des
   demi-vérités et des mensonges pour faire croire que la démocratie ne
   vaut pas mieux que l'autocratie", a-t-elle averti.

La désinformation russe pointée

   Dans son rapport, Google a souligné que sa plateforme de partage de
   vidéos YouTube avait désactivé de janvier à avril 400 chaînes
--
   TikTok a annoncé avoir vérifié 832 vidéos liées à la guerre en Ukraine,
   ce qui a conduit au retrait de 211 d'entre elles.
   Sur le même sujet
       sociaux face à la désinformation russe

   Parmi les contenus retirés par les plateformes, le "narratif russe" est
   "très dominant", a expliqué Vera Jourova. De nombreuses fausses
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-80">
<text>

   Istanbul

Turquie : acquittement du représentant de RSF, jugé pour propagande
terroriste"

Istanbul - Le représentant de Reporters Sans Frontières (RSF) en Turquie,
accusé de propagande terroriste" pour avoir collaboré à un journal prokurde,
a été acquitté mercredi à l'issue d'un long procès qui avait avivé les
inquiétudes face à l'érosion de la liberté d'expression dans le pays.

--

   Ils avaient tous les trois été arrêtés en juin 2016 pendant une dizaine
   de jours avant d'être laissés en liberté conditionnelle pendant leur
   long procès sous les accusations de propagande terroriste", "apologie
   du crime" et "incitation au crime".

   Le tribunal a en outre jugé qu'ils pouvaient réclamer "une compensation
--
   - "Le combat continue" -

   M. Önderoglu, qui se trouve actuellement à l'étranger, est poursuivi
   sous la même accusation de propagande terroriste" dans le cadre d'un
   autre procès, qui doit s'ouvrir le 7 novembre, pour avoir soutenu des
   universitaires ayant signé une pétition appelant à la fin des

--
   tweet.

   "L'acquittement d'Erol Onderoglu, représentant de @RSF_inter en Turquie
   poursuivi pour propagande terroriste depuis trois ans, est une victoire
   exceptionnelle de la justice et de la liberté de la presse dans un pays
   félicité le secrétaire général de RSF Christophe Deloire, également sur
   Twitter.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-81">
<text>

   Washington

Washington tente d'accroître son contrôle sur les "organes de propagande
chinois

Washington - Le gouvernement américain a tenté lundi de renforcer son
contrôle sur quatre nouveaux médias d'Etat chinois aux Etats-Unis, accusés
d'être des "organes de propagande, au risque d'alimenter les tensions déj
fortes entre les deux pays.

   Washington avait annoncé dès vendredi des restrictions de visas visant
--

   "Afin d'assurer une plus grande transparence des entités dirigées par
   le Parti communiste chinois aux Etats-Unis, j'ai demandé de désigner
   quatre organes de propagande de la République populaire de Chine
   supplémentaires comme missions diplomatiques étrangères", a annoncé sur
   Twitter le chef de la diplomatie américaine Mike Pompeo.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-82">
<text>

   Pékin

Xi Jinping, l'appli-propagande qui fait chauffer les smartphones

Pékin - Apprendre la pensée du président Xi Jinping, dans l'espoir d'obtenir
une promotion... voire une tablette tactile: une application mobile de
propagande fait fureur en Chine -- sous la pression du Parti communiste.

   L'appli ""Xuexi Qiangguo", "Etudier pour rendre le pays fort" illustrée
   d'un portrait du président chinois Xi Jinping, photographiée sur un
--
   Apple ou Android depuis son lancement en janvier, selon l'entreprise
   pékinoise de statistiques Qimai Technology.

   "C'est un parfait exemple de propagande à l'ère Xi Jinping. C'est
   adapté à la Chine et à sa très forte population d'internautes", déclare
   Manya Koetse, rédactrice en chef de "What's on Weibo", un site de
   veille des réseaux sociaux chinois.
--
   le fondateur de la Chine populaire, Mao Tsé-toung (1893-1976). La
   "Pensée" des deux hommes figure dans la Constitution.

   Les services de propagande du PCC rivalisent d'imagination ces
   dernières années pour gagner les coeurs. Ils ont déjà tenté de faire
   passer le message du Parti sur les réseaux sociaux avec des chansons
   rap ou des dessins animés.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-83">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Une IA a créé de faux journalistes pour une
   campagne de propagande en ligne


   Retour à l’accueil
--
   Retour à l’accueil

   High-Tech Une IA a créé de faux journalistes pour une campagne de
   propagande



--
    1. Accueil
    2. High-Tech

Une IA a créé de faux journalistes pour une campagne de propagande en ligne

   propagande Des articles de presse ont été publiés alors que les auteurs
   étaient fictifs, selon une enquête du Daily Beast


--
   Publié le 13/07/20 à 16h00
   11 commentaires 0 partage

   Une IA a créé de faux journalistes pour une campagne de propagande en
   ligne
   Une IA a créé de faux journalistes pour une campagne de propagande en
   ligne — Geeko

   Des médias conservateurs comme Newsmax ou le Washington Examiner ont
--
   supprimé les articles liés à ces auteurs fictifs. Twitter a également
   suspendu les comptes associés à ces personnages. « Cette vaste
   acteurs malveillants peuvent exploiter l’identité de personnes réelles,
   duper les médias internationaux et légitimer la propagande de
   provenance inconnue », a déclaré Marc Owen Jones à la rédaction
   TheDailyBeast, de l’Université Hamad Bin Khalifa au Qatar.
   High-Tech
   Erica, un robot dopé à l’IA, va jouer le premier rôle dans un film de
   science-fiction
   Monde
   État Islamique : La police européenne paralyse la propagande en ligne
   du groupe terroriste


--
       Facebook lance une campagne pour aider ses utilisateurs à lutter
       contre…
       29/06/20 | VIRALITE
       Réseaux sociaux : Les articles de désinformation étrangers sont
       plus…

   Plus d’actu
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-84">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Canada : Les élus ciblés par une campagne de
   propagande chinoise sur les réseaux sociaux


   Retour à l’accueil
--

   Retour à l’accueil

   Monde Au Canada, les élus visés par une campagne de propagande chinoise
   en ligne


--
    2. Monde
    3. Canada

Canada : Les élus ciblés par une campagne de propagande chinoise sur les
réseaux sociaux

   DEEPFAKE Les messages automatiques accusaient notamment Justin Trudeau
--
   Publié le 24/10/23 à 11h32 — Mis à jour le 24/10/23 à 12h06
   5 commentaires 1 partage

   Les messages de propagande ont été publiés par des bots sur de nombreux
   réseaux sociaux du groupe Meta. (Photo d'illustration)
   Les messages de propagande ont été publiés par des bots sur de nombreux
   réseaux sociaux du groupe Meta. (Photo d'illustration) — Mourad
   ALLILI/SIPA

   Le Canada a affirmé ce lundi avoir détecté une importante campagne de
   propagande chinoise en ligne visant des élus et des membres du
   gouvernement. Elle aurait été menée d’août à septembre.

   Incluant des vidéos « deepfake », la campagne tentait de dénigrer et
--
   l’éthique », mais rien ne représentait « une menace pour leur sécurité

   Fin août, Meta avait annoncé avoir supprimé des milliers de comptes en
   lien avec une importante opération de propagande chinoise en ligne. La
   campagne aurait été active sur plus d’une cinquantaine de plateformes,
   dont Facebook, Instagram, TikTok, YouTube ou encore X (ex-Twitter).

--
   Iran : Deux journalistes condamnées pour avoir couvert l’affaire Mahsa
   Amini
   Société
   Arras, Bruxelles… « L’État islamique a réussi à diffuser une propagande
   qui lui a survécu »
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-85">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Russie : Le Parlement vote une nouvelle loi
   d'interdiction de la propagande » LGBT+


   Retour à l’accueil
--
    3. Russie

Russie : Le Parlement vote une nouvelle loi d’interdiction de la
« propagande » LGBT+

   discrimination Les parlementaires russes ont voté jeudi des amendements
   qui élargissent grandement le champ d’application d’une loi de
   « propagande » LGBT+


    20 Minutes avec AFP
--

   Moscou durcit sa loi envers les minorités LGBT+. Les députés russes ont
   adopté jeudi des amendements qui élargissent considérablement le champ
   d’application d’une loi interdisant la « propagande » LGBT+, en plein
   virage conservateur du Kremlin accompagnant son offensive militaire en
   Ukraine.

   Cette nouvelle loi, qui est une version augmentée d’un texte très
   décrié de 2013 bannissant la « propagande » LGBT+ auprès des mineurs,
   interdit désormais de « faire la promotion de relations sexuelles non
   traditionnelles » auprès de tous les publics, dans les médias, sur
   Internet, dans les livres et dans les films.
--
   comme un moyen de « défendre » la Russie contre un assaut des pays
   Monde
   Russie : Le Parlement vote en première lecture le durcissement de la
   loi sur la « propagande LGBT »
   Monde
   La Russie condamne Meta et TikTok pour « propagande » LGBT
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-86">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr TikTok, un réseau d'une « naïveté confondante
   » qui diffuse la propagande russe, dénonce Macron


   Retour à l’accueil
--

   Retour à l’accueil

   Société TikTok, un réseau naïf qui diffuse la propagande russe selon
   Macron


--
    1. Accueil
    2. Société

TikTok, un réseau d’une « naïveté confondante » qui diffuse la propagande
russe, dénonce Macron

   REseaux sociaux « Le premier perturbateur (psychologique), le réseau le
--
   3,2 millions d’abonnés sur ce réseau social. Le président de la
   République a jugé ce jeudi l’appli chinoise d’une « naïveté
   confondante », très régulée politiquement par Pékin, et affirmé
   qu’elle diffusait de la « propagande russe cachée ».

   « Le premier perturbateur (psychologique), le réseau le plus efficace
   chez les enfants et les adolescents, c’est TikTok », a lancé le chef de
--
   déplacement à Fontaine-le-Comte, près de Poitiers (Vienne). « Derrière
   il y a une vraie addiction » des jeunes.

« C’est là où vous avez de la propagande russe cachée »

   Lutte contre le harcèlement scolaire, sensibilisation à l’autisme,
   santé : le chef de l’Etat a publié plusieurs vidéos sur ce réseau, très
--
   un contenu sur ce qu’il se passe au Xinjiang ou autre », a-t-il dénoncé
   en référence à la répression et au travail forcé des Ouïghours dans
   cette province du nord-est de la Chine. « C’est là où vous avez de la
   propagande russe cachée », a-t-il ajouté sans plus de précisions.

   Emmanuel Macron a fait ces déclarations lors d’une visite à bord d’un
   bus qui va à la rencontre des jeunes à travers le département de la
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-87">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr propagande russe: «Aujourd'hui, pour le
   Kremlin, il faut briser l'UE», analyse l'historienne Galia Ackerman


--
   Retour à l’accueil

   Société L'historienne Galia Ackerman décrypte la stratégie de
   propagande russe



--
    1. Accueil
    2. Société

propagande russe: «Aujourd'hui, pour le Kremlin, il faut briser l'UE»,
analyse l'historienne Galia Ackerman

   INTERVIEW Spécialiste de l'idéologie de la Russie post-soviétique,
--
   pourtant le tournant idéologique que prend le Kremlin. Dans son nouveau
   livre, Le Régiment immortel (éd. Premier parallèle)*, Galia Ackerman
   analyse l’idéologie du pouvoir russe. Une idéologie qui passe aussi par
   la propagande auprès des populations étrangères. L’historienne explique
   pour 20 Minutes le fonctionnement de cette propagande.
   Galia Ackerman est spécialiste de l'Ukraine et de l'idéologie de la
   Russie post-soviétique. Galia Ackerman est spécialiste de l'Ukraine et
   de l'idéologie de la Russie post-soviétique. - Claire Moliterni
--
   territoire. Pour la Russie, c’est une menace existentielle, c’est comme
   cela que les dirigeants russes le perçoivent.

Quel rôle jouent RT et Sputnik dans le relais de cette propagande ?

   Le mode opératoire de RT et Sputnik n’est pas banal. Dans le livre, je
   cite une vidéo faite par Margarita Simonian, la rédactrice en chef de
--

   A l’époque soviétique, le KGB a toujours considéré qu’il y avait une
   guerre d’information. Leur influence était limitée en Occident et leur
   propagande n’avait pas beaucoup de relais. Aujourd’hui, comme il n’y a
   plus l’obstacle que représentait l’idéologie communiste, cette
   propagande est plus facile à passer.

Vous citez également Vladislav Sourkov, un proche du président russe, qui
explique que « la Russie s’introduit dans les cerveaux (des pays étrangers)
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-88">
<text>

   Retour à l’accueil

   Monde Entre propagande et photos choquantes, comment s’informer sur la
   guerre ?


--
   Un message qui devrait devenir automatique. — L.F
       se déroule également sur les réseaux sociaux.
       l’internaute, difficile de faire le tri entre vraie information et
       message de propagande. S’ajoute à cela la difficulté des images,
       parfois choquantes et sordides.
       sur les réseaux sociaux.

--
   autour de la guerre entre le Hamas et Israël. Sur X (ex-Twitter), près
   50 millions de messages ont été échangés dans le monde en un seul
   week-end. Mais tout n’est pas bon à prendre parmi cette quantité de
   publications et se cache parfois des messages de propagande à la fois
   israélienne ou palestienne, mais aussi de violentes images de cadavres
   prémunir en s’assurant une information juste sur la guerre ? 20 Minutes
   vous offre quelques billes.
--
   assurant à n’importe qui sa petite tribune en prétextant être un compte

   Ne vous y trompez pas, ce n’est pas parce qu’il y a un coche bleu que
   ce compte ne relaye pas la propagande d’un camp ou d’un autre. Dans ces
   moments de conflit, faites confiance aux comptes que vous connaissez
   déjà et privilégiez la catégorie « Abonnements » plutôt que « Pour
   vous ». Lorsqu’un compte publie une information, demandez-vous de qui
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-89">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Attaque du Hamas en Israël : Le gouvernement
   israélien a-t-il publié une publicité de « propagande » sur YouTube ?


   Retour à l’accueil
--

   Retour à l’accueil

   Politique Une vidéo de propagande israélienne en publicité sur
   YouTube ?


--
    2. Politique

Attaque du Hamas en Israël : Le gouvernement israélien a-t-il publié une
publicité de « propagande » sur YouTube ?

   FAKE OFF Dans le contexte de la guerre avec le Hamas, le ministre des
   Affaires étrangères Israélien a publié une publicité vidéo qui apparaît
--
   été visionnée par de nombreux internautes. — Capture d'écran YouTube
       est apparue en publicité avant de nombreuses vidéos sur YouTube en
       France, et a suscité l’interrogation de nombreux internautes, la
       qualifiant parfois de « propagande ».
       israélien sur YouTube dimanche 8 octobre.
       gouvernement israélien sur la guerre avec le Hamas, jugée trop
       violente.
--
   toujours visionnable en ligne.

   De nombreux internautes francophones mais également anglophones font
   état du même constat, certains utilisant le terme de « propagande ».
   Certains ont partagé une autre vidéo, qui comporte, elle, des images de
   bombardements ainsi que le message : « We will make sure that those who
   harm us pay a heavy price » (Nous veillerons à ce que ceux qui nous
--
   2 millions de fois avant d’être supprimée.

   rc/qzq00ku/showtitle/1/?tagparam=category%3Dactualite%26subcategory%3Dp
   e%2Cinternet%2Cpropagande%2Cdesintox%2Cactu-generale%2Cpolitique

La vidéo enfreint-elle les règles de YouTube ?
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-9">
<text>
   Facebook
   Alerte info

désinformation: après Twitter, l'Union européenne ouvre une enquête contre
Meta et Tiktok

   Le 19/10/2023 à 12:19

   Cette enquête s'ajoute à celle ouverte par l'Union européenne contre
   Twitter, dans un contexte de hausse de la désinformation lors du
   conflit entre Israël et le Hamas.

   Bruxelles a annoncé jeudi l'ouverture d'une enquête visant les réseaux
--

   Vidéos humiliantes d'otages, corps décapités, assassinats filmés... Les
   réseaux sociaux ont été inondés d'images violentes mais aussi de
   tentatives de désinformation, un défi pour toutes les plates-formes.

   "La diffusion généralisée de contenus illicites et de désinformation
   liés à ces événements entraîne un risque clair de stigmatisation de
   certaines communautés, de déstabilisation de nos structures
   démocratiques, sans parler de l'exposition de nos enfants à des
--
   Le réseau social du milliardaire Elon Musk est pourtant
   particulièrement scruté par les experts de la Commission européenne.
   Bruxelles s'était inquiété fin septembre du taux élevé de
   désinformation sur X, épinglant ses mauvais résultats lors de tests
   effectués sur plusieurs plateformes.

   Après avoir racheté Twitter l'an dernier, Elon Musk a procédé à une
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-90">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Daesh: Les femmes particulièrement visées par
   la propagande de l'organisation djihadiste, selon Europol


   Retour à l’accueil
--
   Retour à l’accueil

   Monde Daesh vise particulièrement les femmes dans ses documents de
   propagande



--
    2. Monde
    3. Daesh

Daesh: Les femmes particulièrement visées par la propagande de l'organisation
djihadiste, selon Europol

   TERRORISME Le groupe terroriste promet aux femmes « une reconnaissance
--

   Daesh a fait beaucoup d’efforts de communication pour convaincre les
   femmes de venir grossir ses rangs. L’organisation terroriste a
   multiplié les éléments de propagande pour attirer de futures
   combattantes et dissiper leurs doutes, selon un rapport d’Europol
   relayé par Europe 1 ce vendredi.

   Les spécialistes ont analysé 200 textes, vidéos et documents de
   propagande, dans lesquels les femmes sont spécifiquement ciblées. La
   démarche marque un réel changement dans le positionnement du groupe
   djihadiste à l’organisation patriarcale.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-91">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Emmanuel Macron demande aux diplomates
   français de mieux combattre la « propagande anti-française » en ligne


   Retour à l’accueil
--

   Retour à l’accueil

   Politique Macron appelle les diplomates à contrer la « propagande
   anti-française »


--
    2. Politique

Emmanuel Macron demande aux diplomates français de mieux combattre la
« propagande anti-française » en ligne

   RESEAUX « Aujourd’hui on subit trop, on ne fait pas assez », a estimé
   Emmanuel Macron
--
   être beaucoup plus réactifs, beaucoup plus mobilisés sur les réseaux
   sociaux », a insisté le président de la République.

Contrer les « propagandes anti-françaises »

   « Il ne s’agit pas de faire de la propagande », a-t-il fait valoir,
   mais de contrer les « propagandes anti-françaises » et de « combattre
   les narratifs mensongers, les informations fausses et défendre la
   réalité de notre action ». « Aujourd’hui on subit trop, on ne fait pas
   assez », a estimé Emmanuel Macron devant les ambassadeurs et
--
   qui doit être une force pour nous ».

   rc/qss8sl3/showtitle/1?tagparam=category%3Dactualite%26subcategory%3Dpo
   litique%26tags%3Dpolitique%2Chigh-tech%2Cdiplomatie%2Cfake%2Cpropagande
   %2Cemmanuel-macron

   France Médias Monde regroupe notamment la chaîne d’information France
   24 et la radio RFI. Sur les réseaux sociaux, la France a notamment été
   visée par des campagnes de désinformation au Mali, sur fond de tensions
   diplomatiques entre Paris et Bamako​. De nombreuses fausses
   informations y avaient ainsi circulé de manière virale en 2021, portant
   sur les agissements supposés des troupes françaises dans le pays.
--
       le plus…
       sur le conflit en Ukraine
       12/04/22 | RESEAUX SOCIAUX
       Guerre en Ukraine : TikTok aux avant-postes de la désinformation
       tous les grands favoris de l'élection brésilienne de 2022. De
       nombreuses fausses informations circulent sur les réseaux sociaux
       et tentent d'influencer le scrutin. 01/09/22 | DESINFORMATION
       Présidentielle au Brésil : La campagne gangrénée par la
       désinformation sur…
       chars russes ont pénétré en Ukraine
       13/04/22 | INFOGRAPHIE
       Guerre en Ukraine : Twitter a connu une suractivité « suspecte » au
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-92">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Russie : Le Parlement vote en première
   lecture le durcissement de la loi sur la « propagande LGBT »


   Retour à l’accueil
--

   Retour à l’accueil

   Monde A domicile, Poutine s’en prend de nouveau à la « propagande
   LGBT »


--
    2. Monde

Russie : Le Parlement vote en première lecture le durcissement de la loi sur
la « propagande LGBT »

   INEGALITES La « promotion des orientations sexuelles non
   traditionnelles » auprès des adultes est désormais interdite
--
   humains. Alors que les forces russes sont toujours engagées dans
   l’invasion de l’Ukraine, à domicile le Kremlin se tourne vers les
   minorités. Ce jeudi, les députés russes ont voté en première lecture un
   durcissement de la loi controversée réprimant la « propagande LGBT ».

   « Lors de la session plénière, les députés de la Douma d’État ont
   adopté à l’unanimité la première lecture des amendements à la
--

Les « ténèbres répandues » par les Occidentaux

   La loi de 2013 punissant la « propagande LGBT » auprès des mineurs se
   voit ainsi renforcée par une interdiction du « déni des valeurs
   familiales » et de la « promotion des orientations sexuelles non
   traditionnelles » auprès des adultes également. Ces interdictions
--
   LGBT, la Russie est dans un « conflit de civilisation avec
   l’Occident ».
   Monde
   La Russie condamne Meta et TikTok pour « propagande » LGBT
   Monde
   Russie : Une association LGBT dénonce un « enlèvement » de deux
   Tchétchènes
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-93">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr La Russie condamne Meta et TikTok pour «
   propagande » LGBT


   Retour à l’accueil
--

   Retour à l’accueil

   Monde La Russie condamne Meta et TikTok pour « propagande » LGBT



--
    2. Monde
    3. Russie

La Russie condamne Meta et TikTok pour « propagande » LGBT

   CENSURE Les grandes entreprises du numérique sont régulièrement
   condamnées à des amendes en Russie, encore plus depuis le début de la
--
   Le tribunal moscovite de Taganski a d’abord condamné Meta, la maison
   mère des réseaux sociaux Facebook et Instagram, à une amende de quatre
   millions de roubles (environ 50.200 euros au taux actuel) pour n’avoir
   pas supprimé des contenus considérés comme de la « propagande » LGBT.
   Dans une autre audience, le tribunal Mirovoï de Moscou a condamné la
   plateforme TikTok, filiale du groupe chinois ByteDance, à une amende de
   deux millions de roubles pour la même raison.

Une loi contre la « propagande » homosexuelle auprès des mineurs

   Les grandes entreprises du numérique sont régulièrement condamnées en
   Russie à des amendes, accusées de ne pas effacer des contenus jugés
--

   En mars, les autorités russes ont également interdit Facebook et
   Instagram pour « extrémisme ». La Russie a adopté en 2013 une loi
   contre la « propagande » homosexuelle auprès des mineurs, qui a servi
   de prétexte pour interdire des marches des fiertés et l’affichage de
   drapeaux arc-en-ciel.
   Culture
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-94">
<text>
mondiale »

   INTERVIEW Vladimir Poutine continue « d’appliquer à la lettre les
   principes de propagande que lui ont enseignés le KGB et le FSB »,
   explique David Colon, professeur agrégé d’histoire à Sciences po Paris


--
       témoignages, vidéos, podcasts pour rendre compte du quotidien des
       civils, de la situation militaire sur le terrain, du jeu
       diplomatique.
       spécialiste de la propagande revient, pour 20 Minutes, sur
       l’enracinement de la doctrine de la désinformation dans l’histoire
       du pays.

   Un an après le début de « l’opération spéciale » en Ukraine, l’invasion
   russe a aussi mis en exergue la stratégie de désinformation de Moscou.
   David Colon, professeur agrégé d’histoire à l’IEP de Paris et
   spécialiste de la propagande, revient pour 20 Minutes sur
   l’enracinement de cette doctrine dans l’histoire du pays.
   David Colon est l'auteur de « propagande. La manipulation de masse dans
   le monde contemporain ». David Colon est l'auteur de « propagande. La
   manipulation de masse dans le monde contemporain ». - Alexis
   Lecomte/Sciences Po

En temps de guerre, à quoi sert la propagande ?

   Tous les belligérants recourent à la propagande pour persuader
   l’adversaire de leurs forces et pour s’adresser aux opinions publiques
   et les mobiliser en leur faveur, ce sont les deux motivations
   principales. On distingue différents types de tactiques. Il peut s’agir
--
   guerre psychologique pour fragiliser la résilience de l’adversaire ou
   de sa population dans le contexte guerrier.

Peut-on mettre sur le même niveau propagande russe et ukrainienne ?

   Non, absolument pas, parce que la propagande russe se caractérise
   depuis des décennies, au moins un siècle, par le recours systématique 
   ce que les Russes appellent la maskirovka, la désinformation militaire,
   et ce qu’ils appellent depuis 1948 la desinformatsiya, c’est-à-dire la
   désinformation. Celle-ci se caractérise par le recours à des
   informations fausses ou à des théories du complot pour tantôt semer le
   trouble ou le chaos chez l’adversaire, tantôt semer la confusion dans
   les esprits et, ce, à son avantage.

   Autrement dit la désinformation est partie prenante de la doctrine
   russe en matière de guerre de l’information tandis que l’Ukraine,
   jusqu’à présent, n’a eu nul besoin de recourir de façon systématique 
   la désinformation dès lors qu’il lui suffit d’attirer l’attention des
   deux pays s’accusent mutuellement de s’être envahis, il n’y en a qu’un
   qui dit la vérité.

Quels sont les principaux narratifs de désinformation russe ?

   Les Ukrainiens sont des nazis, la Russie aurait été agressée par
   l’Otan, l’Otan dispose de laboratoires secrets en Ukraine, etc. La
   Russie encourage aussi la défiance au sein des sociétés démocratiques
   en encourageant le scepticisme sous toutes ses formes, en amplifiant
   tous les mouvements contestataires, sans préférence politique marquée,
   et cela conduit la Russie à démultiplier les thèmes de désinformation
   de sa propagande. Elle dispose de relais d’influence qui sont d’autant
   plus importants en France que notre pays, d’une part, est soumis depuis
   près de 150 ans à l’ingérence russe et, d’autre part, se caractérise
   depuis plus d’un siècle par la force de son antiaméricanisme.

En un an de guerre, comment les messages ont-ils évolué ?

   Ils n’ont pas évolué, ils sont identiques au type de propagande auquel
   la Russie recourt depuis un siècle, c’est-à-dire qu’il s’agit d’abord
   d’une communication stratégique qui vise à dissuader les pays
   en avant le thème du risque de l’escalade nucléaire. Et cette
--
   lancée et exploitée. C’est cette incertitude qui lui a permis de
   conquérir la Crimée en 2014 sans que les pays occidentaux ne
   réagissent. C’est cette incertitude qui lui permet aujourd’hui de
   déployer sa propagande dans les pays occidentaux et, au-delà, en
   Afrique, en Amérique latine, en Asie avec un certain succès.

Quels sont les relais de la propagande russe ?

   La Russie recourt, comme elle le fait depuis au moins un siècle, 
   différents vecteurs. L’essentiel de la propagande et de la
   désinformation russe se fait au grand jour de façon transparente, c’est
   ce que l’on appelle communément la propagande blanche. La diplomatie
   publique russe se fait le relais de la communication stratégique du
   Kremlin en même temps que de ses opérations de guerre psychologique,
   et, ça, c’est très original. Et, si vous prenez le cas de la France,
--

   De sorte que la Russie n’a pas besoin de recourir à des opérations
   particulièrement complexes pour influencer le débat public en France.
   La propagande russe est ensuite relayée par ses médias internationaux
   qui, tout en étant interdit de diffusion en France, restent accessibles
   sur Internet sous certaines conditions. Il y a aussi une manipulation
   de l’information sur les médias socionumériques, qu’il s’agisse de
--
   déjà aussi employé en 2014. Il faut bien comprendre que Vladimir
   Poutine est un homme du KGB. Il a fait l’essentiel de sa carrière avant
   l’effondrement de l’URSS dans le contre-espionnage. Il continue
   d’appliquer à la lettre et avec constance les principes de propagande
   que lui ont enseigné le KGB, dont il fut officier, et le FSB, dont il
   fut le directeur.

--
   innovations sont de notre côté : ce sont les plateformes
   socionumériques, leurs outils de ciblage publicitaires dont la Russie
   s’est servie pour diffuser à grande échelle ses campagnes de
   désinformation. Et, par conséquent, nous avons servi sur un plateau 
   la Russie les outils qu’elle utilise pour les retourner contre nous.

Peut-on dire que la Russie a gagné la guerre de l’information ?
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-95">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Guerre en Ukraine : Face à la propagande
   russe, « une grande partie des Français a saisi la bonne information »,
   souligne le chercheur Hugo Mercier

--

   Retour à l’accueil

   By the Web Face à la propagande russe, « les Français ont saisi la
   bonne information »


--
    1. Accueil
    2. High-Tech

Guerre en Ukraine : Face à la propagande russe, « une grande partie des
Français a saisi la bonne information », souligne le chercheur Hugo Mercier

   INTERVIEW Hugo Mercier, chercheur à l’Institut Jean Nicod, commente
--
   bombarderait « son propre peuple depuis huit ans », la Russie qui
   serait finalement la victime… La guerre en Ukraine est source de
   nombreuses fausses informations diffusées notamment sur les réseaux
   sociaux. Pour éviter la désinformation, les médias d’Etat russes ont
   été interdits de diffusion en Europe, en raison de leur
   instrumentalisation par le Kremlin. En fin de semaine dernière, l’Ifop
   a publié un sondage intitulé « désinformation, complotisme et populisme
   à l’heure de la crise sanitaire et de la guerre en Ukraine ».

   Cinq thèses russes ont été testées auprès des Français. Résultat : 52 %
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-96">
<text>
Guerre en Ukraine : Les médias russes RT et Sputnik bannis de l’Union
européenne

   propagande Les médias Russia Today (RT) et Sputnik sont accusés de
   diffuser leurs « mensonges » sur la guerre menée par Moscou en Ukraine


--
   Le logo de la chaîne de télévision russe RT.
   Le logo de la chaîne de télévision russe RT. — PN/Newscom/SIPA

   Halte à la propagande ! Les médias d’État russes Russia Today (RT) et
   Sputnik vont être bannis de l’Union européenne, afin de les empêcher de
   diffuser leurs « mensonges » sur la guerre menée par Moscou en Ukraine,
   a annoncé dimanche la présidente de la Commission européenne, Ursula
--
   médias d’État Russia Today et Sputnik, ainsi que leurs filiales, ne
   pourront plus diffuser leurs mensonges pour justifier la guerre de
   Poutine et pour semer la division dans notre Union. Nous développons
   donc des outils pour interdire leur désinformation toxique et nuisible
   en Europe », a indiqué la responsable européenne.

« Une guerre de l’information à travers le monde »
--
   dimanche le gouvernement de Justin Trudeau.

   « Depuis 2014, la Russie mène une guerre en Ukraine et une guerre de
   l’information à travers le monde. RT est l’organe de propagande du
   régime Poutine qui propage de la désinformation. Ça n’a pas sa place
   ici », a déclaré sur Twitter le ministre canadien du Patrimoine, Pablo
   Rodriguez.

   Régulièrement accusée de contribuer à la désinformation, RT est dans le
   collimateur de plusieurs capitales occidentales qui l’accusent d’être
   le porte-voix du Kremlin, d’autant plus depuis l’invasion de l’Ukraine
   par les troupes russes. Depuis l’invasion de l’Ukraine par les Russes
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-97">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Guerre en Ukraine : Non, « Le Parisien » n’a
   pas publié d’articles de propagande russe


   Retour à l’accueil
--

   Retour à l’accueil

   Monde Non, « Le Parisien » n’a pas publié d’articles de propagande
   russe


--
    2. Monde

Guerre en Ukraine : Non, « Le Parisien » n’a pas publié d’articles de
propagande russe

   Fake Off Comme plusieurs autres médias européens, le site a été victime
   d’un plagiat probablement entrepris par un réseau russe
--
       plagiat. Il est possible de le remarquer au nom de domaine qui
       diffère.
       victimes de cette usurpation. Les recherches sur le sujet mènent
       toutes vers une campagne de désinformation menée par un réseau
       russe.

   Depuis quelques jours, Le Parisien est vivement critiqué pour des
--

   Le quotidien d’Ile-de-France n’est pas le seul à avoir été ciblé par ce
   plagiat. Dans un rapport publié en septembre 2022, l’organisation de
   lutte contre la désinformation EU Disinfo Lab avait déjà observé
   dix-sept usurpations de sites de médias européens depuis mai 2022. Ça a
   notamment été le cas du Guardian au Royaume-Uni ou du média allemand
   Bild. Au total, l’organisation européenne avait mis en lumière
--
   des violences commises par les troupes de Kiev ou une corruption de la
   présidente de la Commission européenne, Ursula von der Leyen.

Un réseau russe derrière cette campagne de désinformation

   « Difficile, donc, de ne pas y voir l’ombre de la Russie, qui mène
   depuis plusieurs années – et plus encore depuis le début de la guerre
   en Ukraine – une guerre informationnelle », a avancé le quotidien.
   C’est également une conclusion à laquelle sont arrivés plusieurs
   l’œuvre d’un réseau russe de désinformation qui aurait investi près de
   100.000 euros pour l’opération « la plus importante et sophistiquée »
   depuis l’invasion de l’Ukraine par la Russie en février 2022.
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-98">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr Guerre en Ukraine : Le créateur de « In her
   car », tournée en plein conflit, ne voulait pas « une série de
   propagande »


   Retour à l’accueil
--
    3. Culture

Guerre en Ukraine : Le créateur de « In her car », tournée en plein conflit,
ne voulait pas « une série de propagande »

   TELE « C’était très important pour moi de ne pas créer une série sur la
   guerre mais sur comment la guerre affecte le destin des gens »,
--
   jeudi à Cannes. — Syspeo / Sipa

   Rappeler aux téléspectateurs du monde entier que « la guerre en Ukraine
   continue » et « dire la vérité » sans tomber dans la propagande sont
   les objectifs affichés de la série In her car, tournée en plein conflit
   et projetée cette semaine au Mipcom à Cannes.

--
   dont la langue est parlée par certains personnages, comme le mari de
   Lydia, originaire de Louhansk, dans l’est de l’Ukraine. Et, ce, malgré
   le rejet qu’elle provoque désormais chez nombre d’Ukrainiens. « Je ne
   voulais pas faire une série de propagande » mais « dire la vérité »,
   commente Eugen Tunik, qui a lui-même arrêté de parler russe après
   l’invasion. « Cela aurait été tellement compréhensible que la série »
   soit emplie de haine mais, « à aucun moment, Eugen n’est tombé dans ce
</text>
</page> §
<page="fr-99">
<text>
   #À la Une de 20minutes.fr désinformation : Twitter supprime près de
   3.500 comptes de propagande gouvernementale


   Retour à l’accueil
--

   Retour à l’accueil

   By the Web Twitter supprime près de 3.500 comptes de propagande
   gouvernementale


--
    1. Accueil
    2. High-Tech

désinformation : Twitter supprime près de 3.500 comptes de propagande
gouvernementale

   MODERATION L’immense majorité de ces comptes relayaient le discours
--

   Twitter fait un peu le ménage… Le réseau social a annoncé avoir
   supprimé près de 3.500 comptes qui menaient des opérations d’influence
   et de propagande au profit de gouvernements de différents pays.
   L’immense majorité de ces comptes (2.048) relayaient le discours
   peuple ouïghour, une minorité musulmane dont près d’un million de
   membres seraient détenus dans des camps de travail forcé, selon des
</text>
</page> §
</lang>
<lang="zh">
<page="zh-1">
<text>
人民网 >gt; >gt; 人民 网 海南 频道 >gt; >gt; 海南 新闻

海南省 旅文厅 ： 严禁 旅行社 发布 虚假信息

记者 刘晓惠 通讯员 李艺娜
--
小字号

原 标题 ： 严禁 旅行社 发布 虚假信息

近日 ， 群众 反映 存在 个别 旅行社 在 对 游客 服务 过程 中 发布 有损我省 旅游 形象 等 不 实 信息 的 问题 ， 不 同 程度 影响 抹黑 了 我省 旅游 形象 。 针对 此 问题 ， 海南省 旅游 和 文
化 广电厅 日前 发布 通知 ， 要求 各地 旅文局 、 综合 行政 执法局 、 各 旅行社 、 各 相关 行业 协会 ， 严禁 旅行社 发布 虚假信息 ， 自觉 维护 海南 旅游 形象 。

通知 指出 ， 各 市县 要 结合 旅游 消费 市场 综合 整治 及 旅游 文化 市场 秩序 专项 整治 行动 等 工作 ， 严厉 查处 旅行社 发布 虚假信息 或 欺骗 、 误导 消费者 等 行为 ， 对 发布 虚假
信息 故意 造谣 、 恶意 炒作 抹黑 海南 旅游 形象 的 旅行社 ， 要 按照 相关 法律 法规 严肃 查处 、 追究 责任 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-10">
<text>
人民网 >gt; >gt; 国际

美国 国务院 谎称 中国 散布 虚假信息 ， 华春莹 驳斥

2023年 10月 04日 15 : 55 | 来 源 ： 观察者 网
小字号

美国 国务院 上月 28日 炮制 虚假 报告 ， 谎称 中国 正 斥资 数十亿 美元 在 全球 散布 虚假信息 。 我 外交部 发言人 华春莹 3日 在 X平台 对 美方 的 谬论 予以 了 驳斥 。

“ 美 国务院 指责 中国 在 全球 散布 虚假信息 ？ 试 想 哪 个 国 家 散布 虚假信息 以 对 伊拉克 、 叙利亚 、 阿富汗 等 国 发动 战争 ， 造成 无数 人 丧生 、 经济 遭到 破坏 、 技术 合
作 受到 压制 ？ ”

“ 当 中国 和 越 来 越 多 的 国 家 开始 讲 真话 反击 美国 的 谎言 时 ， 美国 却 感到 自己 的 言论 自由 受到 威胁 ？ ”

“ 仿佛 美国 有 权利 散布 虚假信息 ， 而 中国 等 国 家 却 无权 说实话 、 维护国 家 形象 和 尊严 ？ ”

事实上 ， 将 舆论 场 武器化 正是 美国 的 “ 首创 ” 。
--
“ 我们 撒谎 ， 我们 欺骗 ， 我们 偷窃 。 ”

“ 你 知道 谁 是 世界 历史 上 最 大 的 虚假信息 散播者 吗 ？ 是 美国 政府 。 ”

在 2022年 5月 美国 国会 一 场 听证会 上 ， 联邦 参议员 兰德・ 保 罗 自问 自答 并举 出 一 系列 例证 ， 其中 包括 2003年 美国 政府 以 “ 大规模 杀伤性 武器 ” 为 借口
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-100">
<text>
强手 对 决 ， 既 是 物质 力量 的 比拼 ， 也 是 精神 意志 的 较量 ， 关键 时刻 谁 能 坚持 下去 ， 谁 就 可能 赢得 最后 的 胜利 。 经过 连 续 两 次 战役 ， 志愿军 出现 了 不少 伤亡 ， 部
队 异常 疲劳 ， 急需 补充 休整 。 此时 美军 玩 起 “ 假 谈判 、 真 备战 ” 的 阴谋 ， 打 出 “ 先 停火 、 后 谈判 ” 的 幌子 ， 企图 争取 时间 、 整军 再 战 。 毛 主席 在 给 彭德怀 的 复电 中
指出 ： “ 美 英 正在 利用 三八线 在 人们 中 存在 的 旧 印象 ， 进行 其 政治宣传 ， 并 企图 诱 我 停战 ， 故 我军 此时 越过 三八线 再 打 一 仗 然后 进行 休整 ， 是 必要 的 。 ” 志愿军 发
扬 艰苦奋斗 、 连 续 作战 的 精神 ， 立即 发起 第三 次 战役 、 打 过 三八线 ， 为 后续 行动 赢得 了 政治 军事 双 主动 。 朝鲜 停战 谈判 双方 共 举行 58 次 大会 、 733 次 小 会 ， 最
短 的 会议 仅仅 持续 25 秒 ， 最 长 的 会议 双方 静坐 无言 对峙 132 分钟 ， 美方 一度 要求 中 朝 退出 三八线 后 几十 公里 ， 遭拒 后 还 叫嚣 “ 让 大炮 和 机关 枪 去 辩论 ” 。 中 美
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-11">
<text>
来 源 ： 新华网

王毅 驳斥 所谓 涉疆 “ 强迫 劳动 ” 虚假信息

字体 ： 小 中 大
--
[ qrcode - a p p . png ]

王毅 驳斥 所谓 涉疆 “ 强迫 劳动 ” 虚假信息

2022 - 07 - 29 19 : 25 : 42 来 源 ： 新华网

新华社 塔什干 7月 29日 电 （ 记者 蔡国栋 ） 当地 时间 2022年 7月 29日 ， 国务委员 兼 外长 王毅 在 塔什干 出席 上海 合作 组织 外长 会议 。 王毅 驳斥 了 一些 国 家
炮制 所谓 新疆 “ 强迫 劳动 ” 的 虚假信息 。

王毅 说 ， 近 来 ， 一些 国 家 操弄 涉疆 问题 ， 炮制 所谓 “ 强迫 劳动 ” 的 虚假信息 ， 其 实质 是 打 着 人权 幌子 ， 企图 破坏 新疆 地区 繁荣 稳定 、 遏制 中国 的 发展 振兴 。 新
疆 各族 人民 对 此 决 不 会 允许 ， 全体 中国 人民 对 此 决 不 会 答应 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-12">
<text>
来 源 ： 环球 时报

传播 虚假信息 ， 美社 交 媒体 删除 数十 个 美军 外宣 “ 马甲 ”

字体 ： 小 中 大
--
[ INS : : INS ]

传播 虚假信息 ， 美社 交 媒体 删除 数十 个 美军 外宣 “ 马甲 ”

2022 - 11 - 25 09 : 25 : 59 来 源 ： 环球 时报

美国 社交 媒体 巨头 脸 书母 公司 “ 元 ” （ Meta ） 在 一 份 最新 报告 中 称 ， 该 公司 旗 下 社交 平台 脸书 和 “ 照片 墙 ” 上 的 一些 账号 很 可能 由 美国 军方 人士 管理
， 这些 账号 专注 于 向 俄罗斯 、 阿富汗 、 伊朗 和 叙利亚 等 国 的 网民 传播 虚假信息 ， 以 “ 促进 美国 在 海外 的 利益 ” 。

[ 1211704225 _ 16693383502381 n . jpg ]
--

今年 8月 ， 美国 斯坦福 大学 网络 观察室 发布 报告 称 ， 推特 、 脸书 等 社交 媒体 首 次 取缔 了 进行 亲美 宣传 的 虚假 账号 。 根据 报告 ， 在 近 5 年 的 时间 里 ， 美国 在
社交 媒体 上 搭建 针对 中国 、 俄罗斯 、 伊朗 等 国 的 巨大 宣传网 ， 通过 设立 虚假 账号 、 传播 相似 内容 、 制造 话题 热度 等 手段 发动 政治宣传 和 造谣 行动 。 该 行动 使用 的 账
号 经常 冒充 新闻 媒体 或者 使用 虚假 身份 ， BBC 举例 称 ， 至少 有 一个 账号 使用 人工智能 将 波多黎各 女 演员 瓦莱里娅 · 梅嫩德斯 的 照片 进行 修改 后 用 作 个人 资料 照片
冒充 身份 。 卡内基 国际 和平 研究院 高级 学者 加文 · 王尔德 对 美 军方 “ 明显 无效 的 影响 活动 ” 表示 遗憾 ， 称 此举 令 美国 失去 透明度 。 大西洋 理事会 数字 取证 实验室 的
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-13">
<text>
2022年 ， 接收 新 能源 汽车 投诉 举报 1 . 6万 件 ， 同比 增长 62 . 84 % 。 其中 ， 合同 问题 、 质量 问题 、 虚假 宣传 问题 增速 较 快 ， 分别 同比 增长 126 . 33 %
、 77 . 35 % 、 75 . 65 % 。 消费者 诉求 聚焦 在 ： 售后服务 不 完善 ， 不 履行 “ 三包 ” 承诺 ； 行驶 中 突然 熄火 、 漏 油 、 发动机 异响 、 刹车 转向 失灵 、 电池 模块 损
坏 ； 发布 虚假信息 ， 诱导 消费者 签订 不 公平 格式 条款 ， 减轻 车企 责任 。

六 、 新 消费 热点 引发 的 纠纷 走 高
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-14">
<text>
毛宁 表示 ， “ 五 眼 联盟 ” 情报 高官 对 中国 的 所谓 指责 毫无 事实 根据 ， 充斥 着 对 中国 的 污蔑 抹黑 ， 我们 不 能 同意 ， 对 此 坚决 反对 。

毛宁 强调 ， 中国 一贯 高度 重视 和 致力 于 保护 知识 产权 ， 致力 于 维护 国际 安全 。 “ 五眼联盟 ” 是 世界 上 最 大 的 情报 组织 ， 惯 于 炮制 散布 关于 中国 的 虚假信息 ， 美国 更
是 凭借 自身 的 技术 优势 ， 肆无忌惮 地 在 全世界 大规模 无 差别 地 窃听 窃密 ， 连 自己 的 盟友 也 不 放过 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-15">
<text>

其二 ， 应当 尊重 他国 主权 ， 特别 是 面向 他国 提供 人工智能 产品 和 服务 时 ， 应当 严格 遵守 他国 法律 ， 接受 他国 法律 管辖 。 反对 利用 人工智能 技术 优势 操纵 舆论 、 传播
虚假信息 ， 干涉 他国 内政 、 社会制度 及 社会 秩序 ， 危害 他国 主权 。 新 技术 下 主权 原 则 的 坚守 ， 既 是 树立 人工 智能 时代 国际 信任 的 必要 前提 ， 也 是 避免 科技 霸权 霸凌
行径 的 重要 方式 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-16">
<text>

新疆 事务 纯属 中国 内政 ， 任何 外部 势力 无权 干涉 。 当前 新疆 社会 稳定 、 经济 繁荣 、 民族 团结 、 宗教 和睦 、 民生 改善 ， 这 是 任何 不 带 偏见 的 人 都 能 看 清 的 基本 事实 。
英方 在 联大 三委 翻 炒 所谓 涉疆 人权 问题 ， 散布 谎言 和 虚假信息 ， 目 的 是 要 搞 乱 中国 新疆 地区 、 诋毁 中国 形象 ， 但 英方 的 谎言 早已 破产 ， 英方 的 图谋 注定 失败 。 在 联
大 三委 ， 上百 个 国 家 发出 了 强烈 呼声 ， 反对 把 人权 问题 政治化 ， 反对 借 人权 问题 干涉 中国 内政 ， 充分 表明 国际 社会 的 人心向背 ， 充分 证明 英方 的 恶劣 做法 失道寡助
， 不得人心 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-17">
<text>
谈 到 部分 美国 政客 对 “ 一带 一路 ” 倡议 的 无端 指责 和 恶意 攻击 ， 弗里曼 表示 ， 所谓 中国 在 非洲 推行 “ 债务 陷阱 外交 ” 已 被 专 家 反复 证伪 ， 中国 从 不 干涉 “ 一带 一路
” 共建国 家 内部 事务 ， “ 一带 一路 ” 项目 贷款 没有 附加 条件 。 弗里曼 说 ， 美国 外交官 和 国会 议员 等 一再 无 凭 无据地 抹黑 中国 对 非 政策 ， “ 这 已经 不 是 无视 事实 ， 而
是 蓄意 散布 虚假信息 ” 。
【 责任 编辑 ： 富文佳 】
[ download . jpg ]
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-18">
<text>
八 、 理智 并 清醒 地 认识 生成式 人工智能 的 局限性 ， 不 盲目 崇拜 和 过度 依赖 。

九 、 主动 培养 自身 的 鉴别 能力 和 媒介 素养 ， 在 使用 过程 中 对于 其 可能 会 生成 的 不良 信息 、 虚假信息 、 违法 信息 等 ， 能够 识别 并 正确 处理 。

十 、 我们 坚守 数字 伦理 与 道德底线 ， 对于 生成式 人工智能 所 引发 的 或 可能 会 引发 的 其它 不 良 影响 ， 积极 向 相关 主管 部门 反馈 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-19">
<text>
八 、 理智 并 清醒 地 认识 生成式 人工智能 的 局限性 ， 不 盲目 崇拜 和 过度 依赖 。

九 、 主动 培养 自身 的 鉴别 能力 和 媒介 素养 ， 在 使用 过程 中 对于 其 可能 会 生成 的 不良 信息 、 虚假信息 、 违法 信息 等 ， 能够 识别 并 正确 处理 。

十 、 我们 坚守 数字 伦理 与 道德底线 ， 对于 生成式 人工智能 所 引发 的 或 可能 会 引发 的 其它 不 良 影响 ， 积极 向 相关 主管 部门 反馈 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-2">
<text>
人民网

陈明贵 借 胡某宇 事件 编造 虚假信息 被 提起 公诉

2023年 04月 26日 18 : 12 | 来 源 ： 人民 网 －江西 频道
小字号

人民网 南昌 4月 26日 电 （ 记者 秦海峰 ） 据 江西 检察 部门 消息 ， 近日 ， 陈明贵 借 胡某宇 事件 编造 虚假信息 涉嫌 寻衅滋事 一 案 ， 由 铅山县 人民 检察院 依法 向 铅山县 人
民法院 提起 公诉 。

检察 机关 在 审查 起诉 阶段 ， 依法 告知 了 被告人 陈明贵 享有 的 诉讼 权利 ， 并 依法 讯问 了 被告人 ， 听取 了 辩护人 的 意见 。 铅山县 人民 检察院 起诉 指控 ： 2022年 11
月 至 12月 ， 被告人 陈明贵 为 提高 个人 自媒体 关注 度 ， 借 胡某宇 事件 编造 多 条 与 之 相 关联 的 虚假信息 ， 在 网络 平台 上 散布 ， 造成 公共 秩序 严重 混乱 ， 依法 应当 以 寻
衅滋事罪 追究 其 刑事 责任 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-20">
<text>
十 年 来 ， 用户 上网 的 方式 不 断 变化 ， 但 浙江 网络 空间 依法 治理 的 决心 没有 变 。

以 2023年 为 例 ， 浙江 聚焦 网络 水军 、 自 媒体 乱象 、 网络 谣言 、 虚假信息 等 群众 反映 强烈 的 突出 问题 ， 累计 清理 信息 70万 余 条 ， 关闭 账号 47万 余 个 ， 监测A
pp 应用 3 . 91万 余 款 ， 推动 App 整改 提升 541 个 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-21">
<text>
全面 、 真实 、 准确 宣传 是 企业 营销 的 法定 义务 。 《 广告法 》 明确 ： 广告 应当 真实 、 合法 ； 广告 不 得 含有 虚假 的 内容 ， 不 得 欺骗 和 误导 消费者 。 《 消费者 权益 保
护法 》 规定 ： 经营者 向 消费者 提供 有关 商品 或者 服务 的 质量 、 性能 、 用途 、 有效 期限 等 信息 ， 应当 真实 、 全面 ， 不 得 作 虚假 或者 引 人 误解 的 宣传 。 电信 运营 商藏 一
头盖 一 脚 ， 向 消费者 选择性 提供 手机 套餐 升级 的 有关 信息 ， 甚至 提供 虚假信息 ， 做出 不 实 承诺 ， 欺骗 、 误导 消费者 ， 践踏 了 法律 底线 和 诚信 底线 ， 侵犯 了 消费者 的
知情权 、 选择权 等 权利 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-22">
<text>

法米 •法 齐尔 部长 说 ， 中国 — 东盟 视听周 汇聚 各国 媒体 机构 和 专业 人员 ， 促进 对话 交流 ， 彰显 了 合作 与 理解 的 力量 。 马 中 两 国 在 影视 、 传媒 、 信息 技术 等 领域 合作
前景 广阔 ， 愿 进一步 加强 与 中方 经验 分享 、 互利 合作 ， 共同 应 对 虚假信息 、 网络 威胁 等 挑战 。

开幕式 上 ， 来 自 中国 、 马来西亚 以及 有关 东盟 国 家 的 青年 歌手 、 演员 等 共同 演绎 经典 影视 歌曲 、 译制 配音秀 等 精彩 节目 ， 并 通过 青年 主播 交流 分享 、 短视 频展 映 推
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-23">
<text>
夸克 大 模型 高考 成绩 接近 满分 ， 并 以 486 分 的 高 水平 通过 临床 执业 医师 资格 考试 ， 是 名副其实 的 “ 学霸 ” 。

同时 ， 夸克 大模型 具备 了 对 不 良 、 虚假信息 识别 、 回答 和 指引 的 出色 能力 。 知识 能力 方面 ， 夸克 大模型 拥有 广泛 的 知识 覆盖 、 上下文 理解 、 创造性 表达 、 信息
搜集 和 整合 、 多 语言 支持 等 ， 同时 具备 外接 专业 知识 增强 、 检索 增强 能力 ， 进一步 提升 跨 领域 、 时效性 的 知识 和 语言 理解 能力 。 此外 ， 夸克 大模型 还 具有 撰写 各类
文本 的 强大 文学 创作 能力 ， 以及 准确 、 合理 、 连 贯 的 对话 回复 能力 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-24">
<text>
监督 立案 还原 事实 真相

经过 缜密 侦查 ， 最终 查明 ， 宁夏 、 山东 等 地 的 公司 均 系 专门 从事 “ 暴力 虚 开 ” 犯罪 活动 的 空壳 公司 ， 这些 公司 使用 虚假信息 注册 ， 利用 中介 代办 年检 ， 虚构 办
公场所 ， 其中 山东 的 公司 已 被 当地 警方 打击 ， 这些 公司 的 账户 资金 流均 与 大 连 、 深圳 等 地 犯罪 团伙 有 勾 连 ， 乾坤 公司 就 是 从 这些 公司 开具 的 增值税 专用 发票 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-25">
<text>
板 ， 老板 也 是 一头雾水 ， 称 “ 我们 店 从未 发生 过 爆炸 事故 ” 。

至此 ， 可以 确定 该 消息 为 虚假信息 ， 系 谣言 。 随着 调查 工作 的 不断 深入 ， 民警 很快 将 目光 锁定 店 内 一 位 男性 员工 陈某 ， 经 审讯 ， 陈某 对 其 违法 行为 供认 不 讳 。

天然气 爆炸 致多 人 死亡 ？ 警方 辟谣 ！
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-26">
<text>
为 成员 的 恶 势力 犯罪 集团 ， 有 组织 地 实施 一 系列 的 网络 “ 软 暴力 ” 催收 行为 。

其中 ， 涉案 微博 账号 65 个 ， 身份 明确 的 被害人 达 1039 人 ， 涉及 全国 11 个 省 市 区 ， 发布 虚假信息 进行 微博 催 收 2723 条 ， 累计 点击 数量 达 98328
4 次 ； 恶意 、 不 实 信访 75 次 ， 恶意 投诉 105 次 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-27">
<text>

近日 ， 有 网民 在 某视 频类 社交 平台 发布 视 频称 ， “ 某 生猪 养殖 企业 140 天 饲养 周期 内 用 34 种 抗生素 ” ， 引发 网民 关注 。 对 此 ， 中国 互联网 联合 辟谣 平台 向
有关 主管 部门 核实 查证 ， 证实 视 频中 宣称 的 “ 生猪 养殖 环节 滥用 抗生素 ” 等 信息 为 虚假信息 。

兽药 是 维护 动物 健康 的 重要 投入品 ， 包括 兽用 生物制品 、 兽用 化学 药品 、 兽用 中药 ， 均 可 通过 口服 、 注射 等 方式 给 药 。 兽医 人员 根据 生猪 健康 状况 ， 经 诊断 后
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-28">
<text>

“ 如果 情感 主播 通过 编造 剧本 演戏 骗取 打赏 ， 超过 法律 规定 的 立案 标准 ， 可能 涉嫌 诈骗 犯罪 。 ” 北京 德和衡 律师 事务所 高级 合伙人 马丽红 律师 认为 ， 根据 刑法
和 相关 司法 解释 ， 诈骗 公私 财物 3000 元 以上 就 能 入 刑 ， 而 通过 发送 短信 、 拨打 电话 或者 利用 互联网 、 广播 电视 、 报刊 等 发布 虚假信息 ， 对 不 特定 多数 人 实施 诈
骗 的 要 酌情 从严 惩处 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-29">
<text>
套路 二 ： 红包 返利 骗局

骗子 通过 短视 频网站 、 聊天 工具 等 渠道 发布 红包 返利 虚假信息 ， 诱骗 未成年人 入群 ， 随后 以 手续费 、 转账费 、 红包 等 多种 借口 进行 诈骗 。

套路 三 ： 解除 “ 防 沉迷 ” 系统 骗局
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-3">
<text>
来 源 ： 新华网

中央 网信 办 持续 深入 打击 网络 谣言 和 虚假信息

字体 ： 小 中 大
--
[ INS : : INS ]

中央 网信 办 持续 深入 打击 网络 谣言 和 虚假信息

2022 - 10 - 0 5 20 : 21 : 07 来 源 ： 新华网

新华社 北京 10月 5日 电
记者 5日 从 中央 网信办 获悉 ， 中央 网信 办 深入 推进 “ 清朗 · 打击 网络 谣言 和 虚假信息 ” 专项 行动 ， 继 开展 四川 泸定 地震 网络 谣言溯源 处置 工作 后 ， 督促 网站 平台 进
一 步 全面 排查 整治 涉 突发 事件 、 疫情 防控 、 社会民生 等 重点 领域 网络 谣言 。 截至 目前 ， 重点 网站 平台 共 处置 传播 网络 谣言 账号 2800 余 个 ， 第一时间 溯源 并 关闭
首发 账号 ， 有力 震慑 造谣 传谣 行为 。

据悉 ， 中央 网信办 将 持续 深入 推进 专项 行动 ， 督导 网站 平台 切实 履行 信息 内容 管理 主体 责任 ， 加强 日常 监测 和 查证 处置 ， 依法 从严 惩治 造谣 传谣 行为 ， 并 陆续
公布 典型 案例 ， 强化 警示 曝光 ， 引导 广大 网民 自觉 抵制 网络 谣言 和 虚假信息 ， 积极 营造 风清气 正 的 网络 空间 。
【 纠错 】
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-30">
<text>
新闻 频道 >gt; 国际 新闻

“ 最 大 虚假信息 散播者 ” —— 起底 美国 网络 舆论 操纵 劣迹

来 源 ： 新华网 | 2022年 12月 14日 09 : 50 : 22
新华网 | 2022年 12月 14日 09 : 50 : 22

原 标题 ： “ 最 大 虚假信息 散播者 ” —— 起底 美国 网络 舆论 操纵 劣迹

正在 加载

新华社 北京 12月 13日 电 （ 国际 观察 ） “ 最 大 虚假信息 散播者 ” —— 起底 美国 网络 舆论 操纵 劣迹

新华社 记者

“ 你 知道 谁 是 世界 历史 上 最 大 的 虚假信息 散播者 吗 ？ 是 美国 政府 。 ”

在 今年 5月 美国 国会 一 场 听证会 上 ， 联邦 参议员 兰德 · 保 罗 自问 自答 并举 出 一 系列 例证 ， 其中 包括 2003年 美国 政府 以 “ 大规模 杀伤性 武器 ” 为 借口 入侵 伊
--
的 “ 名 场面 ” 载入 史册 。

长期以 来 ， 美国 政府 一直 散播 虚假信息 、 编织 谣言暗网 ， 以 操纵 舆论 、 妖魔化 他国 、 维护 自身 霸权 。

虚假信息 闪电战 —— “ 仿佛 有人 轻 按 了 一个 开关 ”

在 澳大利亚 阿德莱德 大学 数学 科学 学院 研究 人员 看 来 ， 今年 2月 24日 乌克兰 危机 升级 那天 ， “ 仿佛 有人 轻 按 了 一个 开关 ” ， 社交 媒体 推特 上 宣扬 反 俄 立场 的
账号 “ 突然 爆发 ” ， 每 小时 出现 多 达 3 . 8万 条 带有 “ 支持 乌克兰 ” 标签 的 推文 。 此后 一个 星期 内 ， 累计 有 约 350万 条 渲染 恐 俄 情绪 的 推文 在 不 断 传播 ， 其中 多
达 八 成 来 自 机器人 账号 。 这样 快速 、 大规模 的 网络 舆论 攻势 ， 堪称 一 场 “ 虚假信息 闪电战 ” 。

据 美国 《 每月评论 》 网站 报道 ， 美国 国 家 安全局 局长 、 网络 司令部 司令 保 罗·中曾根 5月 披露 ， 网络 司令部 一直 在 进行 多 项 支持 乌克兰 的 信息 行动 。
--
体 展开 反 俄 宣传 攻势 ， 一些 博客 和 社交 媒体 账号 也 积极 参与 其中 。

美国 通过 社交 媒体 大规模 散播 虚假信息 、 大肆 操纵 舆论 的 劣迹 也 被 其他 研究 人员 印证 。 澳大利亚 研究院 2020年 发布 的 一 份 报告 显示 ， 数以千计 的 推特 账号
曾 在 10 天 内 大量 转发 新冠 病毒 相关 信息 ， “ 步调一致 、 有 组织 地 散播 新 冠 病毒 是 中国 ‘ 生化 武器 ’ 的 阴谋论 ” ， 而 这些 “ 网络 水军 ” 都 与 美国 有关 。

--

美国 《 华盛顿邮报 》 援引 美国 斯坦福 大学 网络 观察室 的 一 份 报告 报道 说 ， 社交 媒体 脸书 和 “ 照片 墙 ” 2020年 9月 曾 发现 ， 有 上百 个 账号 和 主页 被 用 来 向委
内瑞拉 、 玻利维亚 、 墨西哥 等 国 受众 传播 虚假信息 ， 扶植 这些 国 家 受 美国 支持 的 反对派 势力 ， 推动 政权 更迭 。 而 这些 账号 和 主页 均 与 一个 总部 设 在 华盛顿 的 公 关公
司 有关 。

听 不 到 的 声音 —— “ 深度 政府 ” 与 “ 狼群 战术 ”

社交 媒体 的 兴起 为 美国 大规模 操纵 舆论 提供 了 新 环境 和 新 手段 。 美国 政府 以 欺骗 为目 的 ， 在 网络 空间 大量 散播 虚假信息 ， 这种 所谓 “ 影响力 行动 ” 的 具体 操作
手法 及其 背后 的 隐秘 网络 ， 在 斯坦福 大学 网络 观察室 和 社交 网络 分析 机构 格拉菲卡 研究 公司 今年 8月 联合 发布 的 报告 《 听 不 到 的 声音 —— 五 年 来 亲西方 的 隐蔽 影响
力 行动 评估 》 中 ， 被 揭开 一角 。
--
中央 广播 电视 总 台央 视网 版权 所有

[ yangshiwang _ logo _ 18897 _ 190809 . png ] 正在 阅读 ： “ 最 大 虚假信息 散播者 ” —— 起底 美国 网络 舆论 操纵 劣迹
分享
扫 一 扫 分享 到 微信
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-31">
<text>
新闻 频道 >gt; 国际 新闻

外交部 发言人 ： “ 五 眼 联盟 ” 联手 发布 虚假信息 报告 很 讽刺

来 源 ： 新华网 | 2023年 05月 26日 15 : 42 : 24
新华网 | 2023年 05月 26日 15 : 42 : 24

原 标题 ： 外交部 发言人 ： “ 五 眼 联盟 ” 联手 发布 虚假信息 报告 很 讽刺

正在 加载

新华社 北京 5月 25日 电 （ 记者 马卓言 ） 针对 个别 西方 国 家 及 公司 近期 发布 的 有关 涉华 报告 ， 外交部 发言人 毛宁 25日 表示 ， 这 是 美国 出于 地缘 政治目 的 发动
“ 五眼联盟 ” 国 家 采取 的 集体 虚假信息 行动 。 无论如何 变换 手法 ， 都 改变 不 了 美国 才 是 “ 黑客 帝国 ” 的 事实 。

当日 例行 记者会 上 ， 有 记者 问 ： 几 个 西方 国 家 以及 美国 公司 微软 的 分析 团队 周三 表示 ， 一个 中国 黑客 组织 近期 对 美国 的 各种 关键 基础 设施 ， 包括 关岛 进行 了 攻
--

“ 这 是 一 份 东拼西凑 、 证据链 严重 缺失 、 极 不 专业 的 报告 。 ” 毛宁 指出 ， 美国 家 安全局 等 政府 机构 以及 英国 、 澳大利亚 、 加拿大 、 新西兰 等 国 相关 机构 也 同时
发布 了 类似 报告 ， 很 明显 这 是 美国 出于 地缘 政治目 的 发动 “ 五眼联盟 ” 国 家 采取 的 集体 虚假信息 行动 。

“ 众所周知 ， ‘ 五 眼 联盟 ’ 是 世界 上 最 大 的 情报 组织 。 美国 家 安全局 是 世界 上 最 大 的 ‘ 黑客 组织 ’ 。 他们 联手 发布 虚假信息 报告 ， 本身 就 很 讽刺 。 ” 毛宁 说 。

“ 至于 某些 公司 此次 参与 其中 ， 说明 美国 除 政府 机构 外 ， 还 在 拓展 新 的 散布 虚假信息 渠道 ， 这 不 是 第一 次 ， 也 不 会 是 最后 一 次 。 但 无论如何 变换 手法 ， 都 改变
不 了 美国 才 是 ‘ 黑客 帝国 ’ 的 事实 。 ” 毛宁 说 。

毛宁 说 ， 去年 9月 中方 有关 机构 发布 报告 ， 详细 披露 美国 家 安全局 网络 攻击 中国 西北 工业 大学 情况 。 美方 应当 立即 就 有关 网络 攻击 行为 作出 交代 ， 而 不 是 散布
虚假信息 ， 转移视线 。
编辑 ： 林涛 责任 编辑 ： 刘亮

--
中央 广播 电视 总 台央 视网 版权 所有

[ yangshiwang _ logo _ 18897 _ 190809 . png ] 正在 阅读 ： 外交部 发言人 ： “ 五 眼 联盟 ” 联手 发布 虚假信息 报告 很 讽刺
分享
扫 一 扫 分享 到 微信
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-32">
<text>
网络 “ 吃瓜群 ” 中 可能 存在 哪 些 法律 问题 ？ 如何 在 法律 允许 的 范围 内 理性 “ 吃 瓜 ” ？

北京市 天沐 律师 事务所 徐芳 律师 表示 ， 发布 虚假信息 ， 并 在 网络 或者 其他 媒体 上 进行 传播 ， 可能 涉及 不 同 的 刑事 责任 、 行政 责任 或 民事 责任 。 加入 “ 吃瓜群 ” 仅 围
观 没有 风险 ， 但 对 谣言 、 虚假信息 进行 转发 、 散布 ， 或者 发表 评论 超过 合理 的 限度 ， 可能 承担 民事 责任 、 行政 处罚 、 严重 的 将 被 追究 刑事 责任 。

《 新闻 + 》 记者 ： 建立 “ 吃瓜群 ” 并 发布 虚假信息 ， 可能 违反 哪 些 法律 ？

徐芳 ： 根据 发布 信息 的 具体 内容 ， 发布者 可能 要 承担 刑事 责任 、 行政 责任 或 民事 责任 。

首先 ， 刑事 责任 方面 ， 编造 虚假 的 险情 、 灾情 、 警情 ， 在 网络 或 其他 媒体 上 传播 ， 就 可能 构成 “ 编造 、 故意 传播 虚假信息 罪 ” 。 依据 《 刑法 》 ， 严重 扰乱 社会 秩序
的 ， 处 三 年 以下 有期徒刑 、 拘役 或者 管制 ； 造成 严重 后果 的 ， 处 三 年 以上 七 年 以下 有期徒刑 。 另外 ， 如果 在 “ 吃 瓜群 ” 里 发布 了 淫秽 内容 ， 也 将 依据 《 刑法 》 相应
的 规定 进行 定罪 处罚 。

其次 ， 行政 责任 方面 ， 传播 虚假信息 如果 尚 不 构成 刑事犯罪 ， 也 属于 一 般 的 违法 行为 ， 可 根据 《 治安管理处罚法 》 处 以 五 日 以上 十日 以下 的 拘留 ， 并 可 处 500 元
以下 的 罚款 ； 情节 较 轻 的 ， 处五日 以下 拘留 或者 是 500 元 以下 的 罚款 。

最后 ， 民事 责任 方面 ， 发布 的 虚假信息 如果 侵犯 了 他人 的 名誉权 、 荣誉权 、 隐私权 等 人格权 ， 依据 我国 《 民法典 》 相关 规定 ， 还要 承担 停止 侵害 、 恢复 名誉 、 消除
影响 、 赔礼道歉 及 赔偿 损失 的 责任 。

《 新闻 + 》 记者 ： 加入 “ 吃瓜群 ” 是 否 有 违法 风险 ？

徐芳 ： 加入 “ 吃瓜群 ” 仅 围观 ， 不 转发 、 不 评论 ， 本身 没有 风险 。 但 对 谣言 、 虚假信息 进行 转发 ， 或者 发表 评论 超过 了 合理 的 限度 ， 就 可能 涉及 民事 侵权 、 行政 处
罚 ， 严重 的 要 承担 刑事 责任 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-33">
<text>
新闻 频道 >gt; 国际 新闻

美国 国务院 谎称 中国 散布 虚假信息 ， 华春莹 驳斥

来 源 ： 观察者 网 | 2023年 10月 04日 17 : 11 : 52
观察者 网 | 2023年 10月 04日 17 : 11 : 52

原 标题 ： 美国 国务院 谎称 中国 散布 虚假信息 ， 华春莹 驳斥

正在 加载

美国 国务院 上月 28日 炮制 虚假 报告 ， 谎称 中国 正 斥资 数十亿 美元 在 全球 散布 虚假信息 。 我 外交部 发言人 华春莹 3日 在 X平台 对 美方 的 谬论 予以 了 驳斥 。

“ 美 国务院 指责 中国 在 全球 散布 虚假信息 ？ 试 想 哪 个 国 家 散布 虚假信息 以 对 伊拉克 、 叙利亚 、 阿富汗 等 国 发动 战争 ， 造成 无数 人 丧生 、 经济 遭到 破坏 、 技术 合
作 受到 压制 ？ ”

“ 当 中国 和 越 来 越 多 的 国 家 开始 讲 真话 反击 美国 的 谎言 时 ， 美国 却 感到 自己 的 言论 自由 受到 威胁 ？ ”

“ 仿佛 美国 有 权利 散布 虚假信息 ， 而 中国 等 国 家 却 无权 说实话 、 维护国 家 形象 和 尊严 ？ ”

事实上 ， 将 舆论 场 武器化 正是 美国 的 “ 首创 ” 。
--
“ 我们 撒谎 ， 我们 欺骗 ， 我们 偷窃 。 ”

“ 你 知道 谁 是 世界 历史 上 最 大 的 虚假信息 散播者 吗 ？ 是 美国 政府 。 ”

在 2022年 5月 美国 国会 一 场 听证会 上 ， 联邦 参议员 兰德 · 保 罗 自问 自答 并举 出 一 系列 例证 ， 其中 包括 2003年 美国 政府 以 “ 大规模 杀伤性 武器 ” 为 借口
--
中央 广播 电视 总 台央 视网 版权 所有

[ yangshiwang _ logo _ 18897 _ 190809 . png ] 正在 阅读 ： 美国 国务院 谎称 中国 散布 虚假信息 ， 华春莹 驳斥
分享
扫 一 扫 分享 到 微信
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-34">
<text>
新闻 频道 >gt; 中国 新闻

证监会 有关 部门 负责人 就 查处 王某 等 编造 传播 虚假信息 答 记者 问

来 源 ： 央视网 | 2023年 11月 24日 19 : 35 : 32
--
正在 加载

央视网 消息 ： 据 证监会 网站 消息 ， 证监会 有关 部门 负责人 就 查处 王某 等 编造 传播 虚假信息 答 记者 问 。

问 ： 近期 ， 我们 注意 到 ， “ 公安部 网安局 ” 微信 公众 号 发布 了 《 成都 网警 破获 一 起 编造 传播 证券 市场 网络 谣言案 》 。 请问 证监会 对 此 有 何 评论 ？

答 ： 一 段 时间 以 来 ， 一些 不 法分子 编造 传播 资本 市场 虚假信息 和 谣言 。 四川省 成都市 公安 机关 以及 相关 地方 公安 机关 迅速 部署 ， 证监会 密切 配合 ， 对 相关 责任
人 依法 采取 教育 制止 、 传唤 警告 、 拘留 处罚 等 措施 坚决 查处 。

经 查 ， 王某 等 人 编造 资本 市场 虚假信息 和 谣言 ， 制作 虚假 新闻 图片 ， 使用 技术 手段 仿冒 境外 通讯社 新闻 网页 ， 在 微信 群内 传播 ， 经 多 人 转发 ， 严重 误导 投资者
和 社会 公众 ， 扰乱 了 资本 市场 正常 秩序 ， 必须 予以 严厉 打击 。

一直 以 来 ， 证监会 坚决 反对 并 严厉 打击 编造 传播 资本 市场 虚假信息 以及 误导性 信息 的 行为 ， 呼吁 各 方面 真实 、 客观 传播 信息 ， 不 造谣 、 不 传谣 、 不 信谣 ， 共同
维护 资本 市场 信息 传播 秩序 ， 共同 维护 有利于 资本 市场 健康 发展 的 生态 环境 。

--
中央 广播 电视 总 台央 视网 版权 所有

[ yangshiwang _ logo _ 18897 _ 190809 . png ] 正在 阅读 ： 证监会 有关 部门 负责人 就 查处 王某 等 编造 传播 虚假信息 答 记者 问
分享
扫 一 扫 分享 到 微信
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-35">
<text>
Model loaded succeed
“ 呼和浩特 所有 收费站 禁止 出入 ” 是 虚假信息

* 2022 - 02 - 2 4 17 : 30
--

新华网 呼和浩特 2月 24日 （ 李倩 ） 24日 ， 内蒙古自治区 交通 运输 综合 行政 执法 总队 十三 支队 发布 声明 ， 网传 “ 呼和浩特 所有 收费站 禁止 出入 ， 请 提前 安排
好 出行 规划 ” 是 虚假信息 。

声明 称 ， 经 核查 ， 网传 内容 不 属于 该 支队 发布 的 消息 。 若 该 内容 产生 严重 影响 ， 该 支队 将 对 制作 、 发布 该 图片 的 组织 或 个人 依法 追究 法律 责任 ， 由此 产生 法律
--
Copyright © 2000 - 2021 nm g . xinhuane t . com All Rights Reserve d .

“ 呼和浩特 所有 收费站 禁止 出入 ” 是 虚假信息

[ logo4share . jpg ]
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-36">
<text>
松 “ 躺 赚 ” 的 工作 内容 引 来 不少 关注 。 然而 ， 有 专业 人士 表示 ， 这 类 招聘 多 为 骗局 ， 应聘者 可能 陷入 购买 对方 设备 、 交 家 具 家 电押金 等 连 环 诈骗 。

伴随 着 “ 金三银四 ” 求职 旺季 的 到 来 ， 各地 线 上 线 下 招聘 活动 陆续 开展 ， 很多 求职者 想 找到 一 份 心仪 的 工作 。 然而 ， 火爆 的 求职 市场 中 也 混杂 着 部分 虚假信息 ， 求
职者 需 谨慎 甄别 这些 新 “ 坑 ” 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-37">
<text>
值得 关注 的 是 ， 随着 新 能源 汽车 渗透率 快速 提高 ， 消费者 对 品质 的 要求 也 在 不 断 提升 。 2022年 ， 平台 接收 新 能源 汽车 投诉 举报 1 . 6万 件 ， 同比 增长 62 . 8
4 % 。 其中 ， 合同 问题 、 质量 问题 、 虚假 宣传 问题 增速 较 快 ， 分别 同比 增长 126 . 33 % 、 77 . 35 % 、 75 . 65 % 。 消费者 诉求 聚焦 在 ： 售后服务 不 完善
， 不 履行 “ 三包 ” 承诺 ； 行驶 中 突然 熄火 、 漏 油 、 发动机 异响 、 刹车 转向 失灵 、 电池 模块 损坏 ； 发布 虚假信息 ， 诱导 消费者 签订 不 公平 格式 条款 ， 减轻 车企 责任 。

六 、 新 消费 热点 不 断 涌现 ， 伴随 引发 的 消费 纠纷 走 高
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-38">
<text>
（ 五 ） 营造 清朗 网络 空间

紧紧 围绕 人民 群众 的 新 期待 新 要求 ， 规范 网络 信息 传播 秩序 ， 整治 各类 网络 生态 乱象 。 聚焦 网络 淫秽 色情 、 虚假信息 、 网络 暴力 、 算法 滥用 等 人民 群众 反映 强烈 的
突出 问题 ， 持续 开展 “ 净网 ” “ 清朗 ” 系列 专项 行动 ， 对 传播 各类 违法 违规 信息 的 网站 平台 ， 采取 约谈 、 责令 改正 、 警告 、 暂停 信息 更新 、 罚款 等 多种 措施 。 督促
网站 平台 履行 主体 责任 ， 依法 依 约 对 用户 发布 的 信息 进行 管理 ， 建立 网络 信息 安全 投诉 、 举报 机制 ， 形成 治理 合力 。 网络 生态 持续 优化 ， 全 社会 网络 文明 素养 有效
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-39">
<text>
值得 关注 的 是 ， 随着 新 能源 汽车 渗透率 快速 提高 ， 消费者 对 品质 的 要求 也 在 不 断 提升 。 2022年 ， 平台 接收 新 能源 汽车 投诉 举报 1 . 6万 件 ， 同比 增长 62 . 8
4 % 。 其中 ， 合同 问题 、 质量 问题 、 虚假 宣传 问题 增速 较 快 ， 分别 同比 增长 126 . 33 % 、 77 . 35 % 、 75 . 65 % 。 消费者 诉求 聚焦 在 ： 售后服务 不 完善
， 不 履行 “ 三包 ” 承诺 ； 行驶 中 突然 熄火 、 漏 油 、 发动机 异响 、 刹车 转向 失灵 、 电池 模块 损坏 ； 发布 虚假信息 ， 诱导 消费者 签订 不 公平 格式 条款 ， 减轻 车企 责任 。

六 是 新 消费 热点 不 断 涌现 ， 伴随 引发 的 消费 纠纷 走 高 。 近年 来 ， “ 新 消费 ” 正 成为 经济 发展 的 “ 加速器 ” ， 在 满足 消费 多样化 需求 的 同时 ， 一些 侵权 新 情形 与 维权
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-4">
<text>
来 源 ： 湖北 发布

武汉 ： 公安 机关 已 将 编造 、 散布 “ 第1 号 通告 ” 虚假信息 嫌疑人 查获

字体 ： 小 中 大
--
[ INS : : INS ]

武汉 ： 公安 机关 已 将 编造 、 散布 “ 第1 号 通告 ” 虚假信息 嫌疑人 查获

2022 - 11 - 25 18 : 02 : 41 来 源 ： 湖北 发布

11月 25日 ， 武汉 警方 通报 ： 目前 ， 公安 机关 已 将 编造 、 散布 所谓 “ 第1 号 通告 ” 虚假信息 的 嫌疑人 徐 某某 （ 男 ， 33 岁 ） 查获 ， 正 依法 受案 调查 。

日前 ， 一 条 冒充 疫情 防控 指挥部 发布 的 “ 第1 号 通告 ” ， 已 被 武汉市 疫情 防控 指挥部 办公室 证实 ， 纯属 谣言 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-40">
<text>
询 表示 ， 中方 一贯 主张 数据 安全 问题 不 应 成为 个别 国 家 泛化国 家 安全 概念 、 滥用 国 家 力量 、 无理 打压 别国 企业 的 工具 。

汪文斌 指出 ， 美方 迄今 未能 拿 出 证据 证明 TikTok 威胁 美国 国 家 安全 。 美方 应当 停止 在 数据 安全 问题 上 散布 虚假信息 ， 停止 无理 打压 有关 企业 ， 为 各国 企业 在
美 投资 经营 提供 开放 、 公平 、 公正 、 非 歧视 的 营 商 环境 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-41">
<text>
科研 诚信 是 科技 创新 的 基石 ， 良好 的 学风 是 实现 高 水平 科技 自立 自强 的 重要 保障 。 国 家 自然科学 基金 自 2020年 启动 实施 学风 建设 行动 计划 以 来 ， 坚持 从 “ 教育
、 激励 、 规范 、 监督 、 惩戒 ” 五 个 方面 入手 ， 深入 推进 科研 诚信 和 学风 建设 。 资助 本 系列 动画 是 加强 科研 诚信 教育 宣传 的 重要 举措 之一 。 片中 反映 的 抄袭剽窃 、 伪
造 篡改 、 在 科学 基金 项目 申请 中 提供 虚假信息 和 重复 申请 以及 利用 第三 方 服务 时 经常 发生 的 论文 代 写 代投 、 伪造 同行 评议 意见 等 都 属于 科研 不 端 行为 。 请 谨记 科研
行为 规范 ， 严防 触碰 科研 诚信 “ 红线 ” 。 （ 视频 来 源 ： 国 家 自然科学 基金 委员会 ）
责任 编辑 ： 邱晨辉
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-42">
<text>

身 为 大学生 的 投诉人 ， 是 如何 申请 到 贷款 的 呢 ？ 肖晓 表示 ， 当时 他 申请 分期付款 的 时候 ， 就 表明 自己 大学生 的 身份 。 而 软帝在线 的 老师 通过 语音 电话 的 方式 ， 指导
其 身份 认证 填 了 “ 金融 行业 从业 人员 ” 。 晓凡 也 在 投诉 中 表示 ： “ 在 报名 的 时候 我 就 已 告知 是 在校 大学生 ， 但 还是 让 我 填写 了 虚假信息 。 ”

记者 注意 到 ， 多 位 网友 在 黑猫 投诉 、 啄木鸟 投诉 平台 投诉 称 ， 他们 报名 时 根本 不 知道 是 贷款 。 在 他们 看 来 ， 软帝在线 就 是 “ 故意 混淆 概念 ” 、 “ 避重就轻 ” 。 在 黑
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-43">
<text>
Ding ~ 您 有 一 条 短 信 未 读 ， 点 击链 接 或 添加 微信 ， 跟着 操作 ， 就 … … 掉 入 骗子 的 陷阱 啦 ！

随着 移动 通讯 设备 的 广泛 普及 ， 借助 手机 等 通信 工具 和 现代 网络 技术 实施 的 非 接触式 诈骗 犯罪 迅速 蔓延 ， 不 法分子 通过 群发 短 信 ， 编造 虚假信息 ， 假冒 国 家 机关 、
公司 、 医院 、 朋友 等 名义 ， 谎称 被 骗人 中奖 、 退税 、 家 人 意外 受伤 、 朋友 急事 、 有 人 加害 或 出售 致富 信息 和 投资 分红 等 情况 ， 对 受害人 实施 远程 、 非 接触式 诈骗 ，
诱使 受害人 给 不法分子 打款 或 转账 ， 即使 人们 具备 了 一定 的 反诈 意识 ， 也 很 容易 被 不 法分子 “ 高超 ” 的 骗术 给 蒙蔽 ， 给 广大 人民 群众 造成 极大 损失 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-44">
<text>
网易 首 页 >gt; 网易号 >gt; 正文 申请 入 驻

法律 科普 ： 虚假信息 构成 何种 法律 责任 ?

2023 - 11 - 10 14 : 37 : 32 　 来 源 : 律刑 道 [ ipLocation . f 6d00 e b . svg ] 河南 举报
--
分享 至 好友 和 朋友 圈

虚假信息 是 指 不 真实 、 不 准确 、 不 完整 或者 误导性 的 信息 ， 通常 用于 欺骗 、 诽谤 、 诱导 或者 影响 他人 的 行为 或者 判断 。 虚假信息 在 现代 社会 中 十分 普遍 ， 尤其 是 在
网络 、 媒体 、 广告 等 领域 。

虚假信息 不 仅 损害 了 公众 的 知情权 和 选择权 ， 还 可能 危害 国 家 安全 、 社会 稳定 、 市场 秩序 和 个人 利益 。 那 么 ， 虚假信息 构成 何种 法律 责任 呢 ？

[ ? url = http % 3 A % 2 F % 2Fdingyu e . w s . 12 6 . net % 2 F 2023 % 2 F 1110 % 2Fa21ddd2 d j00 s 3wae7
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-45">
<text>
首 页 >gt; 正文

乌合麒麟 如何 运用 视觉 表达 揭露 虚假信息

来 源 ： 中国 互联网 联合 辟谣 平台 发布 时间 ： 2021 - 11 - 2 6
--
首 届 网络 文明 大会 于 11月 19日 在 北京 国 家 会议 中心 举行 。 大会 主题 为 “ 汇聚 向上 向 善 力量 ， 携手 建设 网络 文明 ” 。 作为 中央 网信 办 重点 打造 的 网络 文明 实
践 品牌 ， 中国 互联网 联合 辟谣 平台 始终 以 营造 清朗 网络 空间 、 共建 共享 网络 文明 为 目标 。 今年 ， 世界 互联网 大会 乌镇 峰会 首 次 举办 “ 网络 谣言共治 ” 论坛 ， 与会 嘉
宾 在 全面 治理 网络 谣言 、 防范 阻断 虚假信息 等 方面 进行 了 深入 交流 和 坦诚 分享 。 “ 亮 见 — 网络 谣言 共 治 专栏 ” 将 陆续 发布 国内外 各方 代表 探讨 网络 谣言治理 之 道 的
精彩 见解 。 今天 刊发 第五 篇 《 乌合麒麟 如何 运用 视觉 表达 揭露 虚假信息 》 。

【 编者按 】 随着 移动 互联网 的 发展 ， 信息 呈现 碎片化 、 并发性 、 分布式 、 视觉化 等 主要 特征 。 这 也 给 网络 谣言治理 提出 了 新 的 课题 。 如何 有效 运用 视觉 创意 表
达 ， 提升 信息 传递 的 冲击性 ， 对冲 网络 谣言 传播 ？ 在 今年 世界 互联网 大会 乌镇 峰会 “ 网络 谣言共治 ” 论坛 上 ， “ 乌合麒麟 ” 创办人 付昱 分享 了 运用 视觉 传达 方式 揭
露 互联网 虚假信息 的 经验 和 体会 。 内容 如下 。

网络 空间 虚假信息 和 谣言 ， 开始 呈现 出 碎片化 、 视觉化 、 多 中心化 以及 高速 迭代 演化 等 新 的 特征 ， 这 对 治理 虚假信息 传播 ， 消除 谣言 ， 提出 了 全新 的 能力 建设
的 要求 。

—— 付昱 “ 乌合麒麟 ” 创办人

应 对 虚假信息 的 冲击 与 挑战 ， 从 2020年 新冠 疫情 开始 ， 已经 成为 全球 各国 面临 的 共同 威胁 。 从 网络 空间 内容 治理 的 角度 来 看 ， 结合 个人 网上 经验 ， 谈 如下
三 个 方面 看法 ：

一 是 运用 视觉 传达 方式 揭露 疫情 背景 下 互联网 虚假信息 与 谣言 。 整体 看 ， 伴随 着 移动 互联网 的 普及 和 发展 ， 网络 空间 虚假信息 和 谣言 ， 开始 呈现 出 碎片化 、 视
觉化 、 多 中心化 ， 以及 高速 迭代 演化 等 新 的 特征 ， 这 对 治理 虚假信息 传播 ， 消除 谣言 ， 提出 了 全新 的 能力 建设 的 要求 。 其中 ， 提升 运用 静态 / 动态 的 视觉 方式 进行
揭露 ， 可以 成为 一 种 有效 的 应对 方式 。

疫情 期间 的 武汉 ， 个别 人 迫不及待 地 向 西方 媒体 、 团体 递 上 应邀 创作 的 日记 ， 写 满 了 大概率 有意 为 之 的 虚假信息 与 道听途说 的 谣言 。 比如 ， “ 这 是 殡葬馆 扔 的
满 地 的 无 主 手机 ， 而 他们 的 主人 全 已 化为灰烬 ” 等 谣言 全然 无视 事实 ， 不假思索 地 将 “ 朋友 说 的 ” 公开 传播 出去 。 在 疫情 的 艰难 关头 愈发 不 讲求 事实 与 真相 ， 更 是
把 平时 挂在嘴边 的 “ 常识 ” 抛 诸 脑 后 ， 成为 一个 散播 谣言 的 源头 。
--

信任 与 安全 ， 但愿 这 两 个 美好 的 词汇 ， 能够 在 全世界 真正 爱好 和平 、 了 解 团结 力量 可贵 之 处 的 人民 共同 努力 下 ， 尽早 到 来 。 （ 付昱 “ 乌合麒麟 ” 创办人
原 标题 ： 《 信任 与 安全 —— 新 冠疫情 背景 下 的 虚假信息 全球 挑战 与 应对 》 世界 互联网 大会 乌镇 峰会 “ 网络 谣言 共 治 论坛 ” 发言 选编 ）
责任 编辑 ： 贾玉韬

乌合麒麟 如何 运用 视觉 表达 揭露 虚假信息

转发 权威 辟谣 ， 抵制 网络 谣言 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-46">
<text>
首 页 >gt; 正文

台湾 传播 学者 谈 打击 虚假信息 五 大 对策

来 源 ： 中国 互联网 联合 辟谣 平台 发布 时间 ： 2021 - 12 - 15
--
首 届 网络 文明 大会 于 11月 19日 在 北京 国 家 会议 中心 举行 。 大会 主题 为 “ 汇聚 向上 向 善 力量 ， 携手 建设 网络 文明 ” 。 作为 中央 网信 办 重点 打造 的 网络 文明 实
践 品牌 ， 中国 互联网 联合 辟谣 平台 始终 以 营造 清朗 网络 空间 、 共建 共享 网络 文明 为 目标 。 今年 ， 世界 互联网 大会 乌镇 峰会 首 次 举办 “ 网络 谣言共治 ” 论坛 ， 与会 嘉
宾 在 全面 治理 网络 谣言 、 防范 阻断 虚假信息 等 方面 进行 了 深入 交流 和 坦诚 分享 。 “ 亮 见 — 网络 谣言 共 治 专栏 ” 陆续 发布 了 国内外 各方 代表 探讨 网络 谣言治理 之 道 的
精彩 见解 。 今天 刊发 第十一 篇 《 台湾 传播 学者 谈 打击 虚假信息 五 大 对策 》 。

【 编者按 】 台湾 世 新 大学 新闻 传播 学院 院长 胡光夏 认为 ， 打击 虚假信息 ， 共 治 网络 谣言 ， 要 从 五 个 方面 入手 ， 一 是 政府 层面 的 法治 规范 ， 二 是 媒体 层面 的 自我
管理 ， 三 是 第三 方 查核 机构 参与 ， 四 是 民间 团队 的 监督 ， 五 是 个人 的 媒介 素养 提升 。 只有 从 五 个 方面 共同 努力 ， 才 能 构建 良好 的 网络 环境 。 胡光夏 在 2021年 世
界 互联网 大会 乌镇 峰会 “ 网络 谣言共治 ” 论坛 上 的 发言 内容 如下 ：
--
—— 胡光夏 台湾 世 新 大学 新闻 传播 学院 院长

关于 打击 虚假信息 的 对策 ， 包括 政府 的 法治 规范 、 媒体 的 自我 管理 、 非政府 事实 查核 机构 、 民间 的 监督 团体 以及 媒体 识读 等 五 个 方面 。

政府 的 法治 规范 ， 是 打击 谣言 非常 重要 的 一 环 。 台湾 地区 专门 针对 新冠 疫情 虚假信息 制定 了 特别 条例 ， 即 散布 谣言 最高 处 三 年 以下 有期徒刑 。 德国 、 法国 近 几
年 也 制定 了 一些 网络 管制 的 法规 条例 。

--

民间 的 监督 团体 ， 主要 有 媒体 观察 、 教育 基金会 、 公民 参与 、 媒体 改造 联盟 、 媒体 联盟 、 优质 新闻 发展 协会 等等 。 这些 机构 早期 是 针对 传统 媒体 内容 部分 ， 特
别 是 对 情色 、 暴力 等 内容 进行 监督 。 随着 互联网 迅速 发展 ， 虚假信息 日益 增多 ， 许多 民间 团体 也 会 针对性 地 做 研究 ， 希望 能够 建构 优质 的 网络 环境 。

媒体 识读 方面 ， 欧洲 起步 最 早 。 比如 ， 芬兰 的 媒体 识读 教育 启动 非常 早 ， 在 对抗 虚假信息 方面 ， 结合 事实 、 训练 、 批判 思考 等等 ， 做 得 相当 不 错 ， 可以 借鉴 。
台湾 地区 大学 也 有 媒体 识读 教育 。

--
责任 编辑 ： 闫 丹丹

台湾 传播 学者 谈 打击 虚假信息 五 大 对策

转发 权威 辟谣 ， 抵制 网络 谣言 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-47">
<text>
首 页 >gt; 正文

华侨 大学 停办 ？ 校方 ： 系 虚假信息 ， 已 报警

来 源 ： 新 京 报网 发布 时间 ： 2021 - 12 - 16
新 京 报网

12月 14日 晚 ， 华侨 大学 在 官方 微博 发布 消息 称 ， 近日 ， 网络 上 流传 一 份 关于 华侨 大学 停办 的 虚假信息 ， 给 学校 声誉 带 来 了 严重 损害 ， 学校 已经 报警 。

华侨 大学 辟谣 声明 截图 。 图 / 华侨 大学 官方 微博

华侨 大学 在 辟谣 消息 中 表示 ， 华侨 大学 1960年 由 中央政府 创办 ， 是 国 家 重点 建设 的 大学 ， 办学 61 年 来 为 海内外 培养 大批 优秀 人才 ， 在 国内 和 海外 享有良
好 声誉 。 对于 虚假信息 的 编造者 传播者 ， 学校 保留 依法 追究 其 法律 责任 的 权利 。

官网 资料 显示 ， 华侨 大学 是 中央 统战部 直属 ， 由 中央 统战部 、 教育部 、 福建省 人民政府 共同 建设 的 普通 高等学校 。 学校 在 泉州 、 厦门 两地 分别 设有 校区 ， 总 占
--
责任 编辑 ： 闫 丹丹

华侨 大学 停办 ？ 校方 ： 系 虚假信息 ， 已 报警

转发 权威 辟谣 ， 抵制 网络 谣言 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-48">
<text>
来 源 ： 新华网

国际 观察丨 用 虚假信息 抹黑 中国 将 拖累 全球 气候 治理

字体 ： 小 中 大
--
[ INS : : INS ]

国际 观察丨 用 虚假信息 抹黑 中国 将 拖累 全球 气候 治理

2023 - 12 - 06 16 : 30 : 46 来 源 ： 新华网

新华社 迪拜 12月 5日 电 题 ： 用 虚假信息 抹黑 中国 将 拖累 全球 气候 治理

新华社 记者 郭爽 邰 背平 陈梦阳

在 主题 为 “ 团结 、 行动 、 落实 ” 的 《 联合国 气候 变化 框架 公约 》 （ 以下 简称 《 公约 》 ） 第二十八 次 缔约方 大会 （ COP 28 ） 上 ， 个别 西方 政客 散播 所谓 “ 中
国 人均 二氧化碳 排放量 居 世界 第二 ” 的 虚假信息 ， 不 把 使命 放在 应对 气候 变化 的 实际 行动 和 努力 上 ， 而是 别有用心 地 将 矛头 对准 中国 。

“ 那些 ‘ 噪音 ’ 对 （ 全球 气候 治理 ） 进程 没有 任何 帮助 。 ” 《 公约 》 秘书处 负责 项目 协调 的 高级 主任 达尼埃莱 · 维奥莱蒂 5日 在 阿联酋 迪拜 举行 的 COP 28
--
这 是 2023年 11月 30日 在 阿联酋 迪拜 拍摄 的 联合国 气候 变化 迪拜 大会 开幕 现场 。 新华社 记者 王东震 摄

炒作 虚假信息 无异 于 推卸 责任

从 科学 认知 看 ， 发达国 家 排放 温室 气体 的 历史 责任 是 明确 的 。 联合国 政府 间 气候 变化 专门 委员会 （ IPCC ） 历次 评估 报告 均 明确 指出 ， 当前 的 全球 气候 变化
--
“ 数据 已 是 明证 ， 何 来 中国 人均 二氧化碳 排放 居 世界 第二 的 荒唐 说法 。 ” 徐华清 说 。

炒作 虚假信息 无异 于 推卸 历史 责任 。 事实上 ， 一些 发达国 家 承诺 的 减排 目标 过 低 、 落实 不 力 ， 是 造成 全球 减排 缺口 的 重要 原因 。 根据 2022年 发达国 家 向 《
公约 》 秘书处 提交 的 国 家 温室 气体 清单 ， 在 15 个 承诺 2020年 量化 减 排 目标 的 发达国 家 和 欧盟 中 ， 只 有 9 个 缔约方 实现 了 减排 目标 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-49">
<text>
来 源 ： 经济 参考 报

证监会 ： 严厉 打击 编造 传播 虚假信息 行为

字体 ： 小 中 大
--
[ qrcode - a p p . png ]

证监会 ： 严厉 打击 编造 传播 虚假信息 行为

2023 - 11 - 27 10 : 22 : 55 来 源 ： 经济 参考 报

中国 证监会 有关 部门 负责人 日前 就 查处 王某 等 编造 传播 虚假信息 答 记者 问 时 表示 ， 证监会 坚决 反对 并 严厉 打击 编造 传播 资本 市场 虚假信息 以及 误导性 信息 的 行
为 ， 呼吁 各 方面 真实 、 客观 传播 信息 ， 不 造谣 、 不 传谣 、 不 信谣 ， 共同 维护 资本 市场 信息 传播 秩序 ， 共同 维护 有利于 资本 市场 健康 发展 的 生态 环境 。

“ 一 段 时间 以 来 ， 一些 不 法分子 编造 传播 资本 市场 虚假信息 和 谣言 。 四川省 成都市 公安 机关 以及 相关 地方 公安 机关 迅速 部署 ， 证监会 密切 配合 ， 对 相关 责任人
依法 采取 教育 制止 、 传唤 警告 、 拘留 处罚 等 措施 坚决 查处 。 ” 上述 负责人 表示 ， 经 查 ， 王某 等 人 编造 资本 市场 虚假信息 和 谣言 ， 制作 虚假 新闻 图片 ， 使用 技术 手段
仿冒 境外 通讯社 新闻 网页 ， 在 微信 群内 传播 ， 经 多 人 转发 ， 严重 误导 投资者 和 社会 公众 ， 扰乱 了 资本 市场 正常 秩序 ， 必须 予以 严厉 打击 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-5">
<text>
美媒 披露 ——

美国 实施 “ 隐秘 影响 行动 ” 炮制 虚假信息

本报 记者 李志伟
--

据 美国 媒体 近日 报道 ， 美国 国防部 下属 机构 曾 在 社交 媒体 推特 通过 操控 话题 、 欺骗性 宣传 等 手段 干预 中东 民众 舆论 认知 ， 持续 推进 有利于 美国 及其 盟友 的 叙事
。 这 是 美国 政府 利用 社交 媒体 平台 散布 虚假信息 、 操纵 国际 舆论 的 又 一 实证 。

美国 独立 调查 网站 “ 拦截 ” 不 久前 披露 ， 推特 公司 内部 文件 显示 ， 该 公司 将 美军 中央 司令部 运营 的 一些 社交 账户 列入 “ 白名单 ” ， 而 这些 账户 随后 被 用于 在 国
--
事实上 ， 从 冷战 时期 发起 “ 知更鸟 计划 ” 收买 媒体 操纵 舆论 ， 到 新 世纪 借 “ 洗衣粉 ” “ 白头盔 ” 对 伊拉克 、 叙利亚 发动 战争 等 ， 美国 有关 方面 不 断 编造 散布 虚
假 信息 。 《 纽约时报 》 指出 ， 多 年 来 ， 美军 司令部 一直 在 向 海外 受众 宣传 亲美 新闻 和 信息 。 社交 媒体 公司 关闭 一些 与 美国 军方 有关 的 账户 的 决定 表明 ， “ 此类 活动
已经 走 得 更 远 了 ” 。 2022年 5月 ， 在 美国 国会 举行 的 听证会 上 ， 联邦 参议员 兰德 · 保 罗 直言 ： “ 你 知道 谁 是 世界 上 最 大 的 虚假信息 传播者 吗 ？ 是 美国 政府 。 ”
美国 反战 组织 “ 公正 外交 政策 ” 执行 主任 埃里克 · 斯珀林 指出 ， 美国 国会 和 社交 媒体 公司 应该 进行 调查 并 采取 行动 ， 让 美国 公民 知道 自己 缴纳 的 税款 被 用 来 “ 正面
宣传 ” 美国 无 休止 的 战争 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-50">
<text>
巴 以 冲突

以 哈 战争 中 丧心病狂 的 虚假信息

巴勒斯坦人 穆罕默德 - 曾 迪克 （ Mohammed
Zendiq ） 右腿 被 截肢 ， 出院 几 个 月 后 ， 发现 自己 的 照片 在 社交 网络 上 疯传 ， 16 岁 的 他 就 这样 成为 以 哈 战争 爆发 后 席卷 而 来 的 虚假信息 浪潮 的 牺牲品 。

发表 时间 ： 15 / 11 / 2023 - 00 : 39
--
Caulfield ） 解释 说 ， 在 危机 背景 下 ， 诬陷 人 伪装 痛苦 已经 成为 “ 最 容易 预测 的 误导 策略 之一 ” 。

以 哈 战争 爆发 后 这种 恶意 满满 ， 甚至 试图 煽动 一个 族群 仇视 另 一个 族群 的 非常 恶毒 的 虚假信息 满天飞 。

一些 针对 遭受 战争 痛苦 的 加沙人 的 病毒 信息 使用 了 “ 巴莱坞 ” ( Pallywood ) 一 词 ， 这 是 一个 混合 了 “ 巴勒斯坦 ” 和 “ 好莱坞
” 的 贬义 名称 ， 就 这样 廉 价 地 把 脏 水 泼 向 巴勒斯坦人 。

以色列 虚假信息 监督 机构 FakeReporter 工作 的 约塔姆 - 弗罗斯特 ( Yotam
Frost ) 告诉 法新社 ： “ 这种 趋势 始 于 战争 初期 ， 一 段 视频 披露 了 根本 不 存在 的 所谓 电影 拍摄 后台 ， 指控 巴勒斯坦人 在 那里 制造 伤口 ” 。 他 补充 说 ， 也 有 一些
污蔑 以色列 人 的 虚假 叙事 在 流传 。
--

甚至 包括 一些 以色列 官方 账户 ， 包括 大使馆 在内 的 官方 X
账户 也 转播 了 虚假信息 ， 比如 谎称 一 段 巴勒斯坦 儿童 死亡 的 视频 显示 的 “ 其实 ” 只 是 一个 用 布 裹 着 的 布娃娃 。 还有 的 账户 谎称 巴勒斯坦人 把 2013
年 在 埃及 举行 的 示威 和 在 马来西亚 举办 的 葬礼 的 录像 挪用 来 捏造 自己 的 死亡 。

--
月 7日 发动 的 袭击 中 丧生 ， 而且 哈 马斯 还 劫持 了 240 位 人质 。

制造 虚假信息 的 策略 旨在 将 实地 发生 的 事实 放在 一边 ， 从而 分化 了 公众 舆论 ， 煽 起 了 暴力 的 火焰 。

国际 危机 组织 分析师 亚历山德 罗-阿科西 ( Alessandro
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-51">
<text>
写 、 浮雕 、 图案画 、 组字画 等 种类 。

山东 根据地 版画 艺术 。 山东 根据地 利用 版画 图像 艺术 ， 进行 广泛 的 政治宣传 ， 王绍洛 、 那 狄 、 阿 老 、 宋大可 、 李善一 、 郭军旗 、 鲁农 、 鲁岩 、 朱兆丰 、 温国华
、 吴杰 、 李恕 、 范仲初 等 创作者 在 《 大众日报 》 《 前线报 》 《 血战 敌后 的 一一五师 》 等 报刊 书籍 上 发表 了 大量 的 版画 。 书籍 版画 以 《 血战 敌后 的 一一五师 》 《 杨清
法 》 《 滨海八年 》 等 的 木刻 插 画 最为 优秀 。 报纸 版画 以 《 大众日报 》 的 木刻 报头 报 耳画 、 插画 最为 优秀 。 期刊 版画 以 《 山东八路军军政杂志 》 《 山东教育 》 《 战士
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-52">
<text>

习近平 总书记 指出 ： “ 思政课 的 政治性 、 思想性 、 学术性 、 专业性 是 紧密 联系 在 一起 的 ， 其 学术 深度 广度 和 学术 含金量 不 亚于 任何 一 门 哲学 社会科学 ！ ” 思政
课 不 是 简单 的 政治宣传 ， 还要 强调 “ 学理 ” 支撑 。 所谓 “ 学理 ” ， 是 思政 课 教学 中 蕴含 的 学术 原理 与 理论 价 值 。 依托 思政课 将 “ 学理 ” 讲 透 ， 就是 要 深刻 阐发 马克
思主义 的 理论 精髓 与 思想 内涵 、 习近平 新 时代 中国 特色 社会主义 思想 的 核心 要义 与 理论 品格 等 ， 引导 学生 读 原著 、 学 原文 、 悟 原理 ， 在 深学 细悟 中学会 运用 马克思
主义 的 世界观 与 方法论 认识 世界 、 指导 实践 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-53">
<text>

发展中国 家 并 不 相信 美 西方 捏造 的 “ 中国 债务 陷阱 ” 谎言 。 斯里兰卡 外长 萨布里 曾 多次 驳斥 “ 中国 债务 陷阱论 ” ， 指出 中方 尊重 斯方 请求 ， 从 来 没有 强迫 斯方
贷款 ； 没有 中国 的 帮助 ， 斯方 不 可能 实现 发展 。 巴基斯坦 外长 比拉瓦尔 在 访问 日本 时 期间 也 表示 ， 有关 巴基斯坦 陷入 中国 “ 债务 陷阱 ” 的 指责 是 “ 政治宣传 ” ， 巴
基斯坦 债务 问题 不 会 导致 其 重要 基础 设施 被 他人 掌控 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-54">
<text>
康 观念 和 健康 生活 方式 ， 养成 良好 的 生活 习惯 ， 预防 和 减少 不 良 行为 和 习惯 的 发生 。 这 不 仅 符合 高校 教育 的 发展 目标 ， 也 有助于 学生 的 全面 发展 和 社会 进步 。

高校 体育 课程 思政 教育 的 发展 经历 了 多 个 阶段 。 在 早期 ， 体育 课程 思政 教育 主要 是 以 政治宣传 和 思想 教育 为主 ， 强调 集体主义 和 爱国主义 。 随着 社会 的 进步 和
人们 对于 教育 要求 的 提高 ， 体育 课程 思政 教育 逐渐 向 多元化 、 个性化 方向 发展 。 在 新 时代 ， 开展 高校 体育 课程 思政 教育 ， 应 从 以下 几 个 方面 采取 有效 的 实践 路径 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-55">
<text>

日本 网民 ： “ 宣传 ‘ 安全性 ’ 吗 ？ 有 分析 称 ‘ 不 会 立即 出现 影响 ’ ， 所以 冲 个 浪 就 说 ‘ 很 安全 ’ 也 不能 成为 宣传 。 ” 有人 评论 称 ， “ 到 了 这种 地步 ， 只能 说 是 典型
傻瓜式 政治宣传 ” 。 还有 人 质问 ， “ 这 是 在 藐视 福岛 的 现状 吗 ？ 即使 现在 吃 鱼 冲 浪 宣传 ‘ 安全 ’ ， 国民 就 能 安心 吗 ？ 这 群 人 是 认真 的 吗 ？ ”

呵呵 ， 为 展示 排海 所谓 “ 安全性 ” 日本 政客 又 出 新 招 ： 到 福岛 冲浪
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-56">
<text>

不 过 ， 美方 多 年 来 反复 散布 、 炒作 谣言 ， 除 了 在 个别 西方 国 家 收获 些许 随声附和 外 ， 并 未 在 国际 社会 赢得 广泛 认同 ， 尤其 是 当事方 更 对 美国 的 指手画脚 啧有烦
言 。 不 久前 ， 面对 美 西方 的 抹黑 言论 ， 肯尼亚 官员 就 直 斥 其 报道 为 “ 政治宣传 ” ， 是 一 场 对 肯 主权 “ 精心 策划 的 攻击 ” 。

正 如 美国 经济学 家 杰弗 里 · 萨克斯 所 说 ， 这个 世界 不 需要 任何 霸权 ， 美国 应该 放弃 “ 领导 世界 ” 的 念想 。 百年 变局 之下 ， 全球 多极化 格局 正在 加速 形成 ， 那个
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-57">
<text>
中 巴 经济 走廊 建设 10 年 来 取得 的 累累 硕果 ， 是 对 “ 债务 陷阱 ” 等 抹黑 论调 的 最 好 回应 。

巴基斯坦 外长 比拉瓦尔 本月 初 访问 日本 期间 对 日媒 表示 ， 有关 巴基斯坦 陷入 中国 “ 债务 陷阱 ” 的 指责 是 “ 政治宣传 ” ， 巴方 既 接受 中国 的 贷款 ， 也 接受 其他 国
家 贷款 。 中国 向 巴方 提供 的 帮助 大部分 都 是 投资 或 条件 优惠 的 软 贷款 。 巴基斯坦 喀喇昆仑 国际 大学 校长 阿图拉 对 《 今日巴基斯坦报 》 表示 ， 某些 势力 一直 在 诋毁 “
一带 一路 ” 和 中巴 经济 走廊 。 巴中 需要 联手 反击 任何 针对 中巴 经济 走廊 的 举动 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-58">
<text>

____________________ ( BUTTON )
正在 阅读 ： 浅析 国企 思想 政治宣传 与 新 媒体 的 有效 融合

首 页 >gt; [ 4295 . gif ] 专题 频道 >gt; 读书 专题 >gt; 正文

浅析 国企 思想 政治宣传 与 新 媒体 的 有效 融合

来 源 ： 光明 网 2023 - 07 - 2 4 18 : 49
X

国有 企业 作为 国 家 的 重要 经济 支柱 和 主力军 ， 在 经济 发展 和 社会 稳定 中 发挥 着 重要 作用 。 随着 新 媒体 技术 的 快速 发展 和 普及 ， 国有 企业 在 思想 政治宣传 中 面临
着 新 的 机遇 和 挑战 。 因此 ， 国有 企业 思想 政治 工作 要 有效 融合 新 媒体 技术 ， 提升 思想 政治宣传 的 效果 ， 以 加强 企业 文化 建设 、 凝聚 员工 共识 ， 促进 企业 转型 升级 和
可 持续 发展 。

新 媒体 在 国企 思想 政治宣传 中 的 地位 和 作用

新 媒体 具有 信息 传播 快速 、 互动性 强 、 传播 范围 广 等 特点 ， 为 国有 企业 的 思想 政治宣传 提供 了 全新 的 平台 和 方式 。 首先 ， 新 媒体 丰富 了 宣传 形式 和 手段 。 传统
的 思想 政治宣传 主要 依赖 于 报纸 、 电视 、 广播 等 传统 媒体 ， 信息 传播 的 方式 较为 单一 ， 难以 满足 当代 多样化 的 信息 需求 。 而 新 媒体 通过 微博 、 微信 、 客户 端 、 短视
频 等 形式 ， 丰富 了 宣传 内容 的 表现 形式 ， 更加 生动 直观 地 传达 企业 理念 和 价 值观 ， 吸引 受众 的 注意力 ， 提高 传播 效果 。 其次 ， 新 媒体 提升 了 宣传 的 传播 速度 和 覆盖
范围 。 国有 企业 在 思想 政治宣传 中 需要 及时 传递 重要 信息 、 回应 社会关切 。 新 媒体 平台 可以 快速 发布 信息 ， 实现 实时 互动 ， 使 信息 传播 的 速度 大大 加快 。 同时 ， 新
媒体 具有 广泛 的 传播 范围 ， 可以 覆盖 更 广泛 的 受众 群体 ， 让 企业 的 声音 更 广泛 地 传播 开 来 ， 形成 更加 积极 的 舆论 氛围 。 再次 ， 新 媒体 增强 了 互动性 和 参与性 。 传统
的 思想 政治宣传 往往 是 单向 传播 ， 受众 的 参与度 有限 。 而 新 媒体 平台 提供 了 互动 交流 的 机制 ， 使 受众 能够 直接 参与 到 宣传 活动 中 ， 提问 、 评论 、 分享 等 ， 增强 了 受
众 的 参与感 和 归属感 ， 使 宣传 更 具 互动性 和 引导性 。

国企 思想 政治宣传 与 新 媒体 融合 的 阻碍

技术 和 资源 限制 。 一些 国有 企业 可能 面临 技术 和 资源 的 限制 ， 无法 充分 利用 新 媒体 平台 进行 宣传 。 可能 缺乏 专业 的 宣传 团队 和 技术 人员 ， 对于 新 媒体 的 运营 和
--
法规 ， 确保 宣传 内容 的 合规性 和 合法性 。 然而 ， 由于 新 媒体 平台 的 更新 速度 和 监管 手段 的 相对 滞后 ， 对于 监管 的 适应 和 合规 的 掌握 可能 是 一个 挑战 。

国企 思想 政治宣传 与 新 媒体 的 有效 融合 方法

建立 专业 的 宣传 团队 与 技术 支持 。 国有 企业 应 建立 专业 的 宣传 团队 ， 拥有 丰富 的 宣传 经验 和 专业 技能 。 团队 可以 负责 宣传 内容 的 策划 、 设计 、 撰稿 和 发布 等 工
--
。 国有 企业 需要 投入 适当 的 资金 和 资源 ， 为 宣传 团队 提供 必要 的 技术 设备 和 软件 许可 。 这 包括 拥有 高 质量 的 摄影 和 视频 设备 ， 以及 专业 的 宣传 软件 和 编辑 工具 。 投
入 适当 的 资源 可以 提高 宣传 团队 的 工作 效率 ， 确保 宣传 内容 的 质量 和 多样性 。 企业 可以 为 宣传 团队 提供 持续 的 培训 和 学习 机会 ， 保持 团队 成员 对 新 媒体 技术 和 趋势
的 敏感性 和 了 解 。 通过 培训 ， 宣传 团队 可以 不 断 提升 自身 的 专业 能力 ， 掌握 新 媒体 平台 的 最新 技术 和 运营 方法 ， 为 企业 的 思想 政治宣传 提供 更加 精准 和 高效 的 支持
。

--
良好 基础 。

国有 企业 思想 政治宣传 与 新 媒体 的 有效 融合 ， 对于 加强 企业 文化 建设 、 凝聚 员工 共识 ， 促进 企业 转型 升级 和 可 持续 发展 具有 重要 意义 。 通过 充分 发挥 新 媒体 在
宣传 中 的 优势 ， 建立 完善 的 宣传 团队 和 机制 ， 提供 多样化 的 内容 ， 注重 互动 和 沟通 ， 国有 企业 可以 更 好 地 传递 企业 的 理念 和 价 值观 ， 增强 员工 的 凝聚力 和 向心力 ，
树立 良好 的 企业 形象 ， 推动 企业 实现 经济效益 和 社会效益 的 双 赢 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-59">
<text>

【 环球 时报 - 环 球网 报道 记者 邢晓婧
王雯雯 王子璇 】 一 段 时间 以 来 ， 西方 某些 政客 、 媒体 为 攻击 和 抹黑 中国 新疆 不 断 炮制 虚假信息 ， 澳大利亚 独立 学者 莫琳 · 休伯尔 （ Maureen
Huebel ） 因 质疑 西方 的 “ 新疆 叙事 ” 而 遭受 网络 暴力 。 莫琳 · 休伯尔 日前 在 接受 《 环球时报 》 记者 专访 时 表示 ， 西方 针对 新疆 的 指控 没有 任何 依据 ， 有 必要
亲自 去 新疆 看看 。 她 同时 表示 ， 什 么 时候 在 西方 能 公开 讨论 真实 的 新疆 ， 而 不 会 因此 遭受 网络 暴力 ， 什 么 时候 西方 才 算 有 真正 的 言论 自由 和 学术 自由 。
--

自 2021年 以 来 ， 休伯尔 在 推特 上 多次 对 长期 借 所谓 “ 新疆 问题 ” 抹黑 和 攻击 中国 的 德国 所谓 “ 独立 研究者 ” 郑国恩 （ Adrian
Zenz ） 发出 质疑 ， 称 其 所谓 “ 新疆 存在 种族 灭绝 ” 的 报告 没有 基于 实地调研 ， 缺乏 证据 和 公正性 。 而 郑国恩 却 称 休伯尔 是 在 为 新疆 做 “ 政治宣传 ” ， 公然 “ 挂
” 出 其 账号 ， 招致 一些 不 明所以 的 网民 对 其 发起 围攻 。 有人 污蔑 休伯尔 是 “ 廉 价 的 宣传者 ” ， 更 妄 称 其 推特 账号 是 “ 精心 设计 的 虚假 账号 ” “ 机器人 ” 等 。

在 谈及 自身 遭遇 的 “ 网暴 ” 时 ， 休伯尔 对 《 环球时报 》 记者 说 ， 那些 未经 核实 的 虚假信息 已 在 澳大利亚 传播 开 来 ， 导致 民众 对 谈论 新疆 问题 有 种 “ 恐惧 ” 和 “
不 安 ” 。 她 曾 在 推特 上 要求 那些 攻击 、 抹黑 新疆 的 人 提供 证据 ， 可 直到 现在 ， 她 仍 未 等 到 那些 所谓 的 “ 证据 ” 。 她 说 ， 针对 新疆 的 指控 没有 任何 依据 ， 但 大多数 人
似乎 轻信 了 “ 西方 叙事 ” ， 因此 有 必要 亲自 去 新疆 看看 。 “ 公开 讨论 真实 的 新疆 而 不 会 因此 遭受 网络 暴力 ， 才 是 真正 的 言论 自由 和 学术 自由 。 ”
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-6">
<text>
人民网 >gt; >gt; 四川 频道 >gt; >gt; 综合 栏目 >gt; >gt; 新闻 资讯

编造 虚假信息 发布 网络 四川 一 男子 被 刑拘

2023 年 06月 21日 10 : 32 | 来 源 ： 人民 网 －四川 频道
--

人民网 成都 6月 21日 电
（ 记者 李平 ） 6月 20日 ， 为 博 人 眼球 赚取 流量 ， 不 惜 铤而走险 编造 虚假信息 在 互联网 上 故意 传播 的 男子 唐某 ， 被 绵阳市 公安 机关 依法 刑事 拘留 。

6月 19日 上午 ， 一 则 “ 绵阳 大学生 涉嫌 卖淫 800 多 次 ， 赚 120 余 万 元 ， 警方 成功 抓获 ” 的 配图 文章 出现 在 某 网络 平台 之上 ， 引发 网友 关注 。 绵阳市 公安 机关
迅速 对 该 文章 的 真实性 开展 核查 ， 证实 为 虚假信息 。 绵阳市 公安局 随即 指定 涪城区 公安 分局 对 此 展开 调查 ， 严厉 打击 网络 谣言 。

涪城区 公安 分局 通过 调查 发现 ， 居住 在 成都市 新都区 的 男子 唐某 具有 重大 作案 嫌疑 。 当日 23时 许 ， 办案 民警 赶赴 新都区 ， 在 当地 警方 的 协助 下 将 涉嫌 编造 、 故意
传播 虚假信息 的 唐某 抓获 归案 。

经 公安 机关 审查 ， 唐某 （ 32 岁 ， 四川 金堂县人 ） 为 赚取 网络 流量 获得 非法 利益 ， 于 6月 19日 7时 许 利用 互联网 搜索 “ 卖淫 嫖娼 ” 等 关键词 ， 并 将 搜索 到 的 文章
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-60">
<text>

巴基斯坦 经济 事务部 向 新华社 提供 的 数据 显示 ， 截至 今年 4月 ， 巴 外债 总额 为 1257 . 02亿 美元 ， 其中 来 自 中国 的 贷款 为 203 . 75亿 美元 ， 占 巴 外债
总额 的 16 . 2 % 。 巴 外长 比拉瓦尔 本月 初 访问 日本 期间 对 日媒 表示 ， 有关 巴基斯坦 陷入 中国 “ 债务 陷阱 ” 的 指责 是 “ 政治宣传 ” ， 巴方 既 接受 中国 的 贷款 ， 也 接
受 其他 国 家 贷款 。 中国 向 巴方 提供 的 帮助 大部分 都 是 投资 或 条件 优惠 的 软 贷款 。 比拉瓦尔 强调 ， 巴基斯坦 债务 问题 不 会 导致 其 重要 基础 设施 被 他人 掌控 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-61">
<text>
园 新闻 、 家 长 课堂 等 丰富 的 活动 。 和 过去 操作 烦琐 的 传统 校园 广播 不 同 ， 通过 人性化 的 操作 优化 设置 ， 小学生 也 可以 在 点指 之间 运用 抠像 技术 、 3D 背景 设置 、 特
技切 换 、 远程 连 线 等 呈现 高 品质 的 媒体 作品 ， 并 在 活动 策划 和 动手 实操 的 过程 中 培养 想象力 和 创造力 。 同时 ， 利用 校园 电视台 的 新 媒体 传播 优势 ， 学校 不 断 拓宽 德
育 及 校园 文化 建设 的 路径 ， 开展 了 爱国主义 教育 微视频 、 思想 政治宣传 、 校园 文化 活动 等 拍摄 活动 ， 将 学校 的 育人 理念 融入 学生 的 “ 数字化 实践 ” 中 。 此外 ， 学校
还 借助 校园 电视台 开设 家 长 课堂 ， 为 学校 和 家 庭 提供 了 交流 互动 的 平台 ， 提升 家 校 共育 的 水平 和 效率 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-62">
<text>
环球 时报 ： 在 您 看 来 ， 我们 该 如何 做 ， 才 能 让 越 来 越 多 的 海外 人士 都 像 您 一样 对 中国 文化 如此 着迷 ？

贝特朗 ： 从 我 的 经验 来 看 ， 要 确保 人们 了 解 中国 ， 最 重要 的 是 了 解 中国 人民 ， 加强 人 与 人 的 接触 ， 就 会 有 更 多 的 人 像 我 一样 意识 到 ： 中国 的 发展 不 是 政治宣传
， 不 是 政治 口号 ， 是 真实 的 ， 是 中国 人民 想 要 的 、 非常 真诚 和 应该 实现 的 愿望 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-63">
<text>
明 学理 ， 学 深悟 透 精髓 要义 。 中国 特色 社会主义 进入 新 时代 以 来 ， 习近平 新 时代 中国 特色 社会主义 思想 在 不 断 丰富 发展 。 作为 思政课 教师 ， 在 教学 中 不 仅 要 宣
传 新 思想 ， 更 要 阐释 清楚 其中 蕴含 的 学理 ， 做到 知其然 更 知其所以然 ， 知 其言 更 知 其 义 。 习近平 总书记 指出 ： “ 强调 思政课 的 政治 引导 功能 ， 并 不 是 要 把 课 讲 成 简
单 的 政治宣传 ， 而 要 以 透彻 的 学理 分析 回应 学生 ， 以 彻底 的 思想 理论 说服 学生 ， 用 真理 的 强大 力量 引导 学生 。 ” 从 学术 体系 来 看 ， 习近平 新 时代 中国 特色 社会主义
思想 贯通 马克思主义 哲学 、 政治经济学 、 科学 社会主义 ， 贯通 历史 、 现实 和 未 来 ， 贯通 改革 发展 稳定 、 内政 外交 国防 、 治 党 治国 治军 等 各 领域 ， 体现 了 实事求是 、
与时俱进 的 理论 创新 品质 ， 展现 出 强大 的 真理 力量 和 实践 力量 ， 处处 彰显 着 马克思主义 的 学理 根基 。 只 有 明 学理 ， 才 能 学 深悟 透 这 一 思想 的 精髓 要义 。 比如 ， 中国
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-64">
<text>

在 谈 到 欧 美 国 家 对 俄 罗 斯无人机 袭击 事件 的 反应 时 ， 扎 哈罗娃 表示 ： “ 当然 ， 这 是 绝对 卑鄙 的 立场 。 他们 只 看到 和 评论 对 他们 有利 的 东西 ， 除此之外 没有 其他 词 或
定义 。 这 是 政治宣传 。 ”

据 美联社 报道 ， 美国 白宫 新闻 秘书 让 - 皮埃尔 30日 表示 ， 美国 仍 在 收集 有关 无人机 袭击 ( 莫斯科 ) 的 信息 ， 但 重申 “ 一 般 情况 下 ” 美国 政府 不 支持 乌克兰 在 俄 罗
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-65">
<text>
不 是 基于 实地 研究 ， 还 可能 受到 有关 势力 的 资助 ， 因此 缺乏 证据 和 公正性 。

岑茨 随即 声称 ， 许贝尔 “ 不 加 批判 地 传播 关于 新疆 的 政治宣传 ” ， 还 将 许贝尔 的 个人 账号 “ 挂 ” 了 出 来 。 这种 “ 带 节奏 ” 的 操作 ， 引 来 一些 网络 暴民 对 许贝尔
的 攻击 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-66">
<text>
为 了 将 矛头 指向 中国 ， 该 公司 还 耸人听闻 地 宣称 ， “ 伏特 台风 行动 正在 谋求 在 未 来 危机 时刻 破坏 美国 与 亚洲 地区 之间 关键 的 通信 基础 设施 ” 。 这 句 话 一如既往
地 又 长 又 绕 ， 极 易 把 人 绕晕 ， 但 根据 美国 国 家 安全局 前 雇员 和 分包 商斯诺登 所 披露 的 秘闻 来 看 ， 美国 网络 巨头 与 美国 政府 之间 不 清 不 楚 ， 关系 不 凡 。 因此 ， 这种 “
爆料 ” ， 不 过 是 政治宣传 伎俩 。 人们 千万 要 多 个 心眼 ， 不 要 为 其 蒙蔽 ， 要 好好思量 一下 它 为何 这 么 说 ， 以及 谁 让 它 这 么 说 。

当今 世界 ， 黑客 活动 层出不穷 ， 发现 一二 ， 并非 难事 ， 关键 在于 找到 背后 金主 ， 才 能 追究 问责 。 这 就 是 美国 政府 作为 世界 最 大 黑客 帝国 ， 为何 那 么 忌 恨斯诺登
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-67">
<text>
夯实 理论 根基 ， 让 课程 “ 有理有据 ” 。 思政 课 教学 是 知识 传授 与 价 值 引 领 的 统一 。 思政课 不 能 离开 理论 谈 信仰 ， 否则 信仰 就 是 无源之水 、 无 本 之 木 。 只有 用学
理 支撑 政治 、 以 知识 承载 价 值 ， 思政课 才 能 有效 实现 价 值 供 给 。 思政课 教师 要 善于 运用 马克思主义 哲学 分析 框架 解释 现实 世界 ， 以 透彻 的 学理 分析 回应 大学生 思想
困惑 。 思政课 不 是 简单 的 政治宣传 ， 不 能 通过 喊 口号 的 方式 展开 ， 而 要 以 透彻 的 学理 分析 回应 学生 ， 用 真理 的 强大 力量 引导 学生 ， 实现 对 学生 的 思想 引 领 、 价 值 塑
造 。 因此 ， 要 成为 优秀 的 思政课 教师 ， 首先 要 成为 优秀 的 马克思主义 理论 研究者 ， 夯实 理论 基础 ， 让 课程 “ 有理有据 ” 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-68">
<text>
疫情 暴发 初期 ， 美国 一些 政客 和 媒体 就 开始 “ 选择性 失明 ” ： 中国 每天 在 多 个 平台 发布 疫情 情况 ， 数据 完全 公开 ， 他们 却说 “ 中国 数据 不 透明 ， 确诊 和 病亡 人
数 偏 少 ” ； 中国 第一时间 向 世界 卫生 组织 、 有关 国 家 和 地区 组织 主动 通报 疫情 信息 ， 他们 非 说 “ 中国 故意 掩盖 疫情 ， 延误 对外 发布 时机 ” ； 中国 及时 提供 对外 抗疫
援助 ， 他们 硬 说 “ 中国 在 搞 ‘ 援助 政治 ’ ‘ 政治宣传 ’ ” … … 在 他们 的 眼里 ， 事实 真相 究竟 如何 ， 并 不 重要 ； 胡扯 瞎话 蒙混人心 ， 才 最 紧 要 。

此后 ， 在 中国 抗疫 各个 阶段 ， 美国 一些 政客 和 媒体 仍然 痴迷 于 炮制 各种 “ 瞎话 ” 。 中国 进入 疫情 常态化 防控 阶段 ， 他们 称 “ 动态清零 ” 政策 是 “ 践踏 人权 ” ，
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-69">
<text>

据 美国 《 国会山报 》 报道 ， 在 《 纽约时报 》 拒绝 成为 推特 的 付费 用户 后 ， 推特 CEO埃隆 · 马斯克 当地 时间 4月 2日 取消 了 该 媒体 的 认证 标记 ， 并 嘲笑 称 ， “
《 纽约时报 》 的 真正 悲剧 在于 ， 他们 的 政治宣传 一点 都 不 有趣 ” 。 ↓

突然 ， 马斯克 宣布 取消 ！
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-7">
<text>
人民网 >gt; >gt; 国际

赵立坚 ： 美国 是 玩弄 虚假信息 的 高手

2022年 07月02日 05 : 12 | 来 源 ： 新华网
小字号

针对 美国 代表 在 联合国 人权 理事会 第50 届 会议 上 有关 虚假信息 的 言论 ， 外交部 发言人 赵立坚 7月 1日 在 例行 记者会 上 说 ， 美国 是 玩弄 虚假信息 的 高手 ， 他们
惯 于 利用 舆论 机器 和 话语 霸权 ， 扭曲 真相 、 掩盖 恶行 、 逃避 罪责 。

有 记者 问 ： 日前 ， 美国 代表 在 联合国 人权 理事会 第50 届 会议 上 称 ， 在 破坏 社会 稳定 、 传播 混乱 、 动摇 公众 信心 上 ， 虚假信息 是 一 种 危险 、 快速 、 低 价 的 手段
。 你 对 此 有 何 评论 ？

“ 说 到 虚假信息 ， 美方 代表 确实 很 有 经验 ， 因为 美国 的 确 是 玩弄 虚假信息 的 高手 。 他们 惯 于 利用 舆论 机器 和 话语 霸权 ， 扭曲 真相 、 掩盖 恶行 、 逃避 罪责 。 ” 赵
立 坚说 。

赵立坚 表示 ， 以 伊拉克 战争 为 例 ， 美国 以 一 瓶 “ 洗衣粉 ” 的 虚假信息 ， 挑起 长 达 8 年 的 伊拉克 战争 ， 导致 20 多 万 平民 死亡 。 美国 通过 垄断 媒体 信源 ， 向 世界
宣传 “ 美军 的 行动 是 干净 、 负责 的 ” 。 2009年 ， 时任 美联社 社长 柯里 就 曾 批评 美国 政府 将 五角大楼 拓展 为 全球性 宣传 机器 ， 而 军方 高层 则 威胁 柯里 “ 若 他 和 美
联社 继续 坚持 新闻原 则 将 会 被 消灭 ” 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-70">
<text>
欧洲 刑警 组织 27日 发布 一 份 报告 ， 对 采用 ChatGPT 类 工具 进行 犯罪 的 可能性 进行 了 讨论 ， 令 人 警醒 。 “ 大型 语言 模型 检测 和 重现 语言 模式 的 能力 不 仅
有助于 网络 钓鱼 和 在线 欺诈 ， 而且 通常 还 可以 用 来 冒充 特定 个人 或 群体 的 讲话 风格 。 这种 能力 可能 会 被 大规模 滥用 ， 以 误导 潜在 受害者 将 他们 的 信任 交 给 犯罪分子
。 ” 这 份 报告 写道 ， “ 除 了 上述 犯罪 活动 外 ， ChatGPT 的 功能 还 有助于 处理 恐怖主义 、 政治宣传 和 虚假信息 领域 的 许多 潜在 滥用 案件 。 因此 ， 该 模型 通常 可
用于 收集 更 多 可能 促进 恐怖 活动 的 信息 ， 例如 恐怖主义 融资 或 匿名 文件 共享 。 ”
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-71">
<text>
林畲 的 景象 是 福建 苏区 活化 红色 标语 等 红色 文化 遗产 资源 ， 助 推 红色 旅游 发展 的 缩影 。

“ 红色 标语 是 红色 文化 的 重要 内容 ， 是 中国 共产党 领导 的 党政军民 开展 政治宣传 、 加强 思想 动员 的 重要 手段 ， 是 中国 革命史 的 独特 文化 现象 ， 是 不 可 再生 、 不
可 替代 的 珍贵 红色 文化 资源 。 ” 福建省 文物 保护 中心 主任 林峰 表示 ， 福建 各地 留存 红色 标语 内容 丰富 、 形式 多样 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-72">
<text>
据 消息 人士 告诉 赫什 ， “ 这 完全 是 美国 情报 部门 捏造 的 ( 假 新闻 ) ， 并 传播 给 了 德国 人 ， 目 的 是 诋毁 你 ( 赫什 ) 公布 的 故事 。 ”

“ 中央 情报局 内部 的 假 情报 专 家 都 明白 ， 只有 当 公众 迫切 需要 一个 ‘ 故事 ’ 来 掩盖 或 取代 不 需要 的 真相 时 ， 政治宣传 才 会 奏效 。 而 他们 试图 想 掩盖 的 事实 就 是
， 拜登 总统 亲自 下令 炸毁 ‘ 北溪 ’ 管道 ， ” 消息 人士 补充 说道 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-73">
<text>
朝阳 少侠 ： 诋毁 “ 流浪 地球 ” ， 暴露 美国 对 人类 团结 的 恐惧

而 《 纽约时报 》 等 美国 媒体 却 急不可耐 给 出差 评 ， 贬低 影片 “ 充斥 着 政治 潜台词 与 民族主义 ” ， 是 “ 科幻 外衣 下 的 政治宣传 ” 。 这种 “ 摆烂式 ” 打分 恰恰 反证
这部 电影 非常 成功 ， 击中 了 美国 一些 人 的 痛处 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-74">
<text>

三 要 夯实 基层 党组织 的 战斗 堡垒 作用 ， 提高 基层 党组织 的 基层 引领 和 组织 动员 作用 ， 强化 基层 党组织 政治 意识 和 服务 意识 ， 充分 发挥 各 领域 基层 党组织 领导 责
任 ， 突出 政治 功能 ， 加强 政治宣传 和 团结 动员 群众 能力 ， 加强 基层 党组织 党员 干部 队伍 建设 ， 持续 推进 基层 党组织 全 覆盖 ， 增强 基层 制度 能力 建设 ， 提高 党组织 引
领 基层 治理 现代化 能力 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-75">
<text>
影至今 都 未 在 国际 市场 上 形成 规模 ， “ 走 出去 ” 力度 不 足 ， 且 “ 走 出去 ” 核心 半径 较 短 。

（ 三 ） 电影 管理 体制 僵化 。 回顾 历史 ， 由于 长期 对 中国 电影 审查 和 审核 的 行政 管理 体制 ， 导致 中国 电影 “ 被 理解 为 一 种 ‘ 政治宣传 ’ ， 而且 电影 的 大众 文化 定
位 至今 没有 完成 ， 其 负载 的 意识形态 意义 远远 超过 了 其 娱乐 工业 的 意义 。 ”
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-76">
<text>
2022年 6月 ， 墨西哥国 家 复兴 运动党 在 其 推特 账号 上 使用 Amlito卡通 形象 给 本党 州长 候选人 助选 。 针对 执政党 的 这 一 举动 ， 反对党 向 选举 法院 提起
诉讼 。 选举 法院 审议 此事 时 ， 国 家 复兴 运动党 曾 提出 申辩 。 不 过 ， 选举 法院 最终 还是 认为 ， 奥夫拉多尔 本人 并非 候选人 ， 该党 使用 拥有 高 支持率 的 国 家 元首 的 形象
为 其他 政客 拉 票 属于 “ 不 当 得 利 ” 。 选举 法院 还 呼吁 ， 政治宣传 应 侧重 于 候选人 本身 及其 政治 理念 。 这 也 意味着 今后 政党 选举 中国 家 复兴 运动党 再 也 不 能 使用 Am
lito卡通 形象 了 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-77">
<text>

一些 西方 媒体 坚决 不 接受 有关 中国 的 正面 报道 。 如果 你 试图 讲述 一些 有关 中国 的 客观 事实 或 正面 评 价 ， 要 么 它 完全 不 会 出现 在 西方 媒体 的 报道 中 ， 要 么 就 会 被
称为 带有 偏见 或 政治宣传 的 报道 。 我 也 有 过 类似 的 经历 ， 我 曾 试图 正面 评 价 中国 ， 但 被 指责 为 所谓 的 被 收买 。 这 是 无稽之谈 ， 也 是 一 种 侮辱 。 但 ， 这 却 是 事实 。

魏克然 ： 事实上 ， 在 某些 方面 ， 我们 在 应对 一 场 “ 信息 疫情 ” ， 就 像 应 对 一 场 大 流行病 一样 。 作为 媒体 专业 人士 ， 今天 我们 面临 着 一些 具体 的 挑战 。 在 充斥 着
虚假信息 的 信息 时代 ， 信任 是 最 大 的 受害者 ！ 在 美国 ， 具有 讽刺 意味 的 是 ， 越 来 越 多 的 人 倾向 于 通过 深夜 娱乐 和 喜剧 节目 来 了解 周围 发生 的 事情 ， 而 不 是 通过 新闻
。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-78">
<text>

在 主旨 报告 环节 ， 中国 政治 学会 常务 副 会长 、 中国 社会 科学院 政治学 研究所 所长 、 中国 社会 科学院 大学 政府 管理 学院 院长 张树华 教授 指出 ， 理解 全 过程 人民 民
主要 从 七 个 方面 进行 把握 ： 一 是 要 从 政治宣传 的 角度 认识 全 过程 人民 民主 ； 二 是 要 围绕 全 过程 人民 民主 进行 思想 总结 ； 三 是 要 对 全 过程 人民 民主 进行 理论 阐释 ； 四
是 要 对 全 过程 人民 民主 进行 学术 探索 和 追寻 ； 五 是 要 探索 人大 、 政协 如何 更 好 地 贯彻 全 过程 人民 民主 的 制度 安排 ； 六 是 要 探索 全 过程 人民 民主 的 实践 路径 ； 七 是 如
何 对外 讲述 全 过程 人民 民主 。 中国 政治 学会 学术 委员会 常务 副 主任 、 中国 社会 科学院 政治学 研究所 原 副 所长 杨海蛟 教授 从 鲜明 的 时代 特征 、 高度 的 概括性 、 内容 的
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-79">
<text>

在 主旨 报告 环节 ， 中国 政治 学会 常务 副 会长 、 中国 社会 科学院 政治学 研究所 所长 、 中国 社会 科学院 大学 政府 管理 学院 院长 张树华 教授 指出 ， 理解 全 过程 人民 民
主要 从 七 个 方面 进行 把握 ： 一 是 要 从 政治宣传 的 角度 认识 全 过程 人民 民主 ； 二 是 要 围绕 全 过程 人民 民主 进行 思想 总结 ； 三 是 要 对 全 过程 人民 民主 进行 理论 阐释 ； 四
是 要 对 全 过程 人民 民主 进行 学术 探索 和 追寻 ； 五 是 要 探索 人大 、 政协 如何 更 好 地 贯彻 全 过程 人民 民主 的 制度 安排 ； 六 是 要 探索 全 过程 人民 民主 的 实践 路径 ； 七 是 如
何 对外 讲述 全 过程 人民 民主 。 中国 政治 学会 学术 委员会 常务 副 主任 、 中国 社会 科学院 政治学 研究所 原 副 所长 杨海蛟 教授 从 鲜明 的 时代 特征 、 高度 的 概括性 、 内容 的
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-8">
<text>
人民网 >gt; >gt; 国际

“ 影响力 行动 ” 揭 美 虚假信息 传播 冰山一角

王 一同
--

分析 人士 指出 ， 此次 西方 社交 媒体 删除 “ 亲美 ” 账号 固然 令 人 讶异 ， 但 透过 现象 看 本质 ， 其 清除 账户 的 举措 实际上 是 为 了 避免 虚假 账号 泛滥 影响 商业 利益 。 此 事件
中 真正 值得 关注 的 是 ， 所谓 的 “ 影响力 行动 ” ， 暴露 了 美国 这个 “ 谎言帝国 ” 利用 网络 系统性 针对 中国 、 俄罗斯 等 国 以及 中东 、 中亚 等 地区 ， 进行 虚假信息 宣传 的
冰山一角 。 近年 来 ， 无论 在 现实 世界 还是 在 网络 空间 ， 美国 都 已 成为 全球 最 大 的 虚假信息 传播者 。

账号 泛滥 影响 公司 商业 价 值
--
尽管 西方 社交 媒体 删除 “ 亲美 ” 账号 实属 罕见 ， 但 脸书 、 Instagram 、 WhatsApp 和 推特 此举 并非 背离 美国 ， 究 其 原因 ， 还是 为 了 商业 利益 。

用于 虚假信息 宣传 的 账号 泛滥 ， 已经 影响 了 这些 社交 媒体 背后 公司 的 商业 价 值 。 在 特斯拉CEO埃隆 ・马斯克 与 推特 的 收购 纠纷 中 ， 马斯克 就 宣称 是 因为 虚假 账号
泛滥 才 放弃 收购 推特 。 据 《 华尔街日报 》 报道 ， 8月 29日 披露 的 一 份 法庭 文件 显示 ， 马斯克 的 律师 团队 近日 还 要求 法庭 传唤 推特 的 前 安全 主管 ， 希望 其 能够 提供
有关 推特 虚假 账号 和 安全 漏洞 的 文件 及 通讯 记录 。

此次 西方 社交 媒体 删除 “ 亲美 ” 账号 事件 中 ， 真正 值得 关注 并 令 人 警醒 的 是 ， 所谓 的 “ 影响力 行动 ” ， 暴露 了 美国 利用 网络 系统性 进行 虚假信息 宣传 的 冰山一角 。

炮制 散布 虚假信息 由来已久

在 今年 美国 国会 举行 的 一 次 听证会 上 ， 参议员 兰德・ 保 罗 直言 ： “ 你 知道 谁 是 世界 上 最 大 的 虚假信息 传播者 吗 ？ 美国 政府 。 ”

无论 在 现实 世界 还是 在 网络 空间 ， 美国 都 已 成为 全球 最 大 的 虚假信息 传播者 。

此次 所谓 的 “ 影响力 行动 ” ， 与 美国 在 网络 空间 进行 的 浩如烟海 的 虚假信息 宣传 相比 ， 可谓 小巫见大巫 。 不 过 ， 所 使用 的 手段 大同小异 。

《 纽约时报 》 报道 称 ， 研究 人员 发现 ， 过去 近 5 年 的 时间 ， “ 影响力 行动 ” 使用 的 账号 经常 冒充 新闻 媒体 或者 使用 虚假 身份 ， 以 俄语 、 阿 拉伯语 和 乌尔都语 等 至少
--
里 娅・ 梅嫩德斯 的 照片 进行 修改 后 用 作 个人 资料 照片 以 虚构 身份 。

事实上 ， 美国 政府 在 网络 空间 进行 虚假信息 宣传 早已 不 是 什 么 新鲜事 ， 其 手段 路径 已 被 多次 披露 曝光 。

比如 ， 美国 政府 指示 美 国际 媒体署 管理 的 新闻 机构 用 几十 种 语言 制作 所谓 新闻 报道 和 “ 宣传品 ” ， 并 协调 盟国 媒体 机构 转载 推送 ； 提供 重金 资助 美 互联网 媒体 “ 技
术 入股 ” ， 一方面 弱化 、 屏蔽 真实 信息 ， 另一方面 为 传播 虚假信息 “ 开外 挂 ” “ 配 装备 ” 。 在 这个 传播 虚假信息 的 链条 中 ， 美 所谓 “ 学者 ” 、 媒体 、 互联网 、 官方
互 为 谎言 原材料 供应方 和 消费者 ， 而 生产 出 的 虚假信息 产品 又 成为 美 政府 对 他国 制裁 、 施压 、 干涉 的 借口 。

从 全球 多 国 媒体 的 报道 和 多 家 研究 机构 的 报告 中 ， 都 可以 看到 美国 近年 来 在 网络 空间 进行 虚假信息 宣传 的 蛛丝马迹 。

2020年 疫情 期间 ， 推特 上 数千 个 与 美国 共和党 和 右翼 势力 有关 的 账户 疯狂 转发 诬陷 中国 的 阴谋论 ， 但 此举 被 澳大利亚 研究院 发布 的 一 项 报告 揭露 出 来 。 通过 数
--
断 的 目 的 。 “ 水搅 浑 了 ， 捞取 地缘 政治 和 经济 利益 就 容易 了 。 ”

近年 来 ， 中国 、 古巴 、 伊朗 、 俄罗斯 等 国 都 成为 美国 处心积虑 在 现实 世界 和 网络 空间 炮制 虚假信息 的 对象 。

2021年 ， 受 新冠 疫情 和 美国 收紧 制裁 的 影响 ， 古巴 经历 30 年 来 最 严重 的 经济危机 。 同年 7月 11日 ， 包括 首都 哈瓦那 在内 的 古巴多 座 城市 爆发 大规模 示威 。
--
赞 未 加 核实 的 反 古巴 政府 帖文 。

俄 乌 冲突 发生 后 ， 美国 又 在 乌克兰 问题 上 接二连三 散布 针对 中国 的 虚假信息 ， 企图 转嫁 矛盾 ， 挑动 对抗 ， 借机 渔利 ， 可谓 手段 卑劣 ， 用心 险恶 。

不 过 ， 美国 政府 越是 费尽心机 造谣 污蔑 、 渲染 炒作 ， 就 越是 让 国际 社会 看 清楚 其 信誉 账户 的 累累 赤字 。

对 美国 在 网络 空间 毫无 底线 地 炮制 散布 虚假信息 构陷 他国 ， 美国 一些 盟友 也 不再 亦步亦趋 ， 不 愿 为 这种 违逆 国际 信誉 和 道义 的 做法 背书 。

欧盟 委员会 2021年 5月 26日 发布 关于 强化 《 欧盟 反 虚假信息 行为 准 则 》 的 政策 指引 ， 要求 谷歌 、 脸书 等 互联网 平台 加大 反 虚假信息 力度 。

众所周知 ， 从 “ 洗衣粉 ” 到 “ 白头盔 ” ， 从 对 疫情 溯源 的 胡言乱语 到 编造 涉疆 世纪 谎言 ， 美国 政府 作为 全球 最 大 的 虚假信息 传播者 ， 从未 停止 以 炮制 谎言 的 手段 蒙
蔽 世界 ， 粉饰 自诩 的 “ 正义 面孔 ” 。 然而 ， 这些 伎俩 已 逐渐 被 世界 多 国 识破 。 美国 政府 大 搞 虚假信息 宣传 ， 留下 的 只 会 是 洗 不 白 的 恶名 。 正 如 外交部 发言人 赵立坚
所 言 ， 美方 应该 停止 捏造 和 传播 虚假信息 ， 不 再 以 “ 谎言帝国 ” 为 荣 。

( 责编 ： 燕勐 、 崔越 )
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-80">
<text>
罗 思义 ： 首先 ， 可以 满 世界 旅游 的 人 只 占 中国 人口 很 小 的 比例 ， 而 可能 因为 新 冠疫情 而 失去 生命 的 人数 所 占 人口 的 比例 要 远 大于 此 。

因此 ， 西方 宣扬 这种 言论是 最 糟糕 的 ， 他们 为 了 获取 利益 不 惜 杀死 上百万 的 人 。 在 中国 的 人们 应该 了 解 到 这 一 点 ， 这种 言论是 由 西方 炮制 的 纯粹 的 政治宣传 。

观察者网 ： 如 您 所 说 ， 面对 疫情 ， 很多 西方 国 家 选择 宣布 “ 疫情 结束 ” ， 随即 停止 采取 积极 的 抗疫 举措 ， 而 中国 政府 依然 坚持 “ 动态清零 ” 政策 。 作为 一 名 疫
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-81">
<text>
环球 时报 ： 客观 地 说 ， 控制 着 全球 话语权 的 美国 仍 在 舆论 上 影响 着 很多 国 家 。 该 如何 打破 这样 的 局面 ？

德扎亚斯 ： 一 般 来说 ， 一个 对 国际 事务 不 是 特别 感 兴趣 的 巴西人 、 南非 人 或 乌干达人 ， 获得 信息 的 途径 只能 是 通过 西方 媒体 ， 并 接受 它们 针对 中国 的 政治宣传
。 因此 ， 中国 除 了 要 在 人权 问题 上 更加 自信 外 ， 还 需要 向 其他 国 家 展示 真实 的 自己 。 中国 可以 通过 媒体 扩大 在 拉丁美洲 和 非洲 的 影响力 。 我 确信 中国 有 能力 参与 这
样 的 竞争 ， 如 将 有关 中国 的 纪录片 放在 YouTube 等 平台 上 。 中国 的 艺术 家 还 可以 在 全球 传播 中国 文化 。 人们 其实 很 欣赏 艺术 家 。 我 知道 中国 的 郎朗 是 著名 钢
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-82">
<text>

____________________ ( BUTTON )
正在 阅读 ： 传播 虚假信息 ， 美社 交 媒体 删除 数十 个 美军 外宣 “ 马甲 ”

首 页 >gt; [ 5574 . gif ] 军事 频道 >gt; 国际 军情 >gt; 正文

传播 虚假信息 ， 美社 交 媒体 删除 数十 个 美军 外宣 “ 马甲 ”

来 源 ： 环球 时报 2022 - 11 - 25 10 : 06
--

美国 社交 媒体 巨头 脸 书母 公司 “ 元 ” （ Meta ） 在 一 份 最新 报告 中 称 ， 该 公司 旗 下 社交 平台 脸书 和 “ 照片 墙 ” 上 的 一些 账号 很 可能 由 美国 军方 人士 管理 ， 这
些 账号 专注 于 向 俄罗斯 、 阿富汗 、 伊朗 和 叙利亚 等 国 的 网民 传播 虚假信息 ， 以 “ 促进 美国 在 海外 的 利益 ” 。

据 美国 《 国会山报 》 23日 报道 ， “ 元 ” 公司 在 其 发布 的 季度 “ 对抗 威胁 报告 ” 中 说 ， 已 删除 30 多 个 脸书 账号 和 20 多 个 “ 照片 墙 ” 账号 ， 以及 其他 相关 页
--

今年 8月 ， 美国 斯坦福 大学 网络 观察室 发布 报告 称 ， 推特 、 脸书 等 社交 媒体 首 次 取缔 了 进行 亲美 宣传 的 虚假 账号 。 根据 报告 ， 在 近 5 年 的 时间 里 ， 美国 在 社交
媒体 上 搭建 针对 中国 、 俄罗斯 、 伊朗 等 国 的 巨大 宣传网 ， 通过 设立 虚假 账号 、 传播 相似 内容 、 制造 话题 热度 等 手段 发动 政治宣传 和 造谣 行动 。 该 行动 使用 的 账号 经
常 冒充 新闻 媒体 或者 使用 虚假 身份 ， BBC 举例 称 ， 至少 有 一个 账号 使用 人工智能 将 波多黎各 女 演员 瓦莱里娅 · 梅嫩德斯 的 照片 进行 修改 后 用 作 个人 资料 照片 冒充
身份 。 卡内基 国际 和平 研究院 高级 学者 加文 · 王尔德 对 美 军方 “ 明显 无效 的 影响 活动 ” 表示 遗憾 ， 称 此举 令 美国 失去 透明度 。 大西洋 理事会 数字 取证 实验室 的 高级
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-83">
<text>
涉及 世界 各国 的 大量 公民 个人 隐私 。 今年 9月 ， 中国 相关 机构 曾 发布 报告 ， 揭露 美国 国 家 安全局 下属 部门 对 中国 的 西北 工业 大学 发起 上千 次 窃密 攻击 。

在 传播 虚假信息 方面 ， 美国 同样 相当 “ 拿手 ” 。 今年 8月 ， 美国 斯坦福 大学 网络 观察室 发布 报告 ， 披露 多 年 来 美国 在 社交 媒体 上 搭建 针对 中国 、 俄罗斯 、 伊朗
等 国 的 巨大 宣传网 ， 通过 设立 虚假 账户 、 传播 相似 内容 、 制造 话题 热度 等 手段 发动 政治宣传 和 造谣 行动 。 美国 人 自己 也 对 此 心知肚明 ， 今年 5月 ， 美国 共和党 参议
员兰德 · 保 罗 在 国会 听证会 上 直言 ： “ 你 知道 谁 是 世界 历史 上 最 大 的 虚假信息 传播者 吗 ？ 美国 政府 。 ” （ 文 / 老度 ）
[ 责编 ： 李伯玺 ]
阅读 剩余 全文 （ ）
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-84">
<text>
面 也 和 吴越楚 三 国 之 争 颇为 近似 。 孙吴 政权 以 “ 吴 ” 国名 ， 而 山越 确 是 “ 越 ” 之 余续 。

面临 内外 双重 压力 的 孙吴 政权 ， 在 政治宣传 和 训诫 方面 ， 吴越 旧事 无疑 是 最 经典 ， 也 最 容易 流传 的 内容 之一 。 因此 以 吴王夫差 和 勾践 的 故事 作为 案例 是 顺理成
章 的 选择 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-85">
<text>
抗美援朝 战争 中 ， 经过 连 续 两 次 战役 的 作战 ， 我 志愿军 出现 不 少 伤亡 减员 ， 部队 异常 疲劳 ， 急需 休整 补充 。 然而 ， 当时 美国 的 企图 和 其 盟友 的 情绪 ， 都 不 允许
志愿军 停止 于 三八线 以北 。 毛泽东 同志 对 战场 内外 敌我 的 军事 、 政治 形势 进行 了 认真 分析 ， 在 给 彭德怀 的 复电 中高屋建瓴 地 指出 ： “ 美 英 正在 利用 三八线 在 人们 中
存在 的 旧 印象 ， 进行 其 政治宣传 ， 并 企图 诱 我 停战 ， 故 我军 此时 越过 三八线 再 打 一 仗 然后 进行 休整 ， 是 必要 的 ” ， 遂 决定 发起 第三 次 战役 ， 用 一 次 新 的 胜利 来 主导
未 来 战争 走向 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-86">
<text>

Graphika 和 SIO 的 研究 人员 通过 分析 一 批 被 Facebook 、 Instagram 和 Twitter 等 社交 平台 移除 的 账号 ， 发现 了 一个 针对 中
东 和 亚洲 国 家 进行 信息 干预 的 巨大 宣传 账户 网 。 这个 暗网 在 对抗 中国 、 俄罗斯 、 伊朗 等 国 家 的 同时 ， 为 促进 自身 及其 盟友 的 利益 而 发动 大规模 政治宣传 造谣 运动 。
用 人工智能 生成 照片 当 头像 ， 冒充 “ 独立 ” 新闻 机构 的 虚假 媒体 组织 ， 复制 粘贴 相同 的 内容 ， 再 制造 热门 标签 引起 话题 讨论 ， 这 是 它 的 整套 操作 流程 。

--

斯坦福 的 这 份 报告 实 属 不 寻常 ， 该 机构 在 自己 的 网页 声称 ， 这 是 到 目前 为止 开源 研究 人员 分析 过 的 社交 媒体 上 范围 最 广 的 “ 亲西方 ” （ pro - wester
n ） 秘密 造势 行动 。 中国 传媒 大学 教授 、 网络 空间 全球 治理 研究 中心 主任 徐培喜 表示 ， 这 是 美国 政府 传播 虚假信息 的 一 种 较为 隐蔽 的 方式 。 而 它 更 常用 的 造谣 方式
则 更为 公开 直接 。

--
“ 首先 ， （ 智库 ） 发布 报告 。 一些 咨询 公司 会 紧 随 其 后 ， 试图 传播 这 份 报告 中 的 信息 ， 同时 ， 其他 智库 也 会 跟进 。 因此 ， 一下子 网上 会 突然 冒 出 很多 关于 该话
题 以及 这 份 报告 的 讨论 。 随后 ， 他们 会 把 这些 “ 要点 话术 ” 散播 到 社交网站 上 并 分享 给 西方 主流媒体 。 以此 来 淹没 有关 真相 或 事实 ， 迫使 当事方 来不及 应对 ， 这 实
际 上 是 美国 在 散播 虚假信息 时 ， 更为 典型 的 一 种 操作 方式 。 ”

S o the publish report firs t . And then after the report was out , some
--
是 谁 在 操纵 新疆 叙事 ？ 斯坦福 大学 的 这 份 报告 亮 了

徐培喜 教授 总结 了 美国 造谣 的 套路 ： 政府 会 资助 一个 智囊团 发表 涉疆 报告 ， 一些 咨询 公司 紧 随 其 后 ， 传播 报告 中 的 信息 。 这些 虚假信息 又 进一步 地 被 西方 政客
、 媒体 放大 ， 在 网络 上 如 病毒 般 传播 。 “ 一犬吠形 ， 百犬吠声 ” ， 西方 也 就 是 这 么 炮制 新疆 “ 种族 灭绝 ” 的 。

--

心理学 上 有 一 种 “ 投射 效应 ” ， 指 人们 容易 认为 别人 拥有 与 自己 相同 的 特点 。 这 不 就是 美国 吗 ？ 自己 搞 窃听 ， 就 揣度 他国 窃听 ； 自己 国内 存在 种族 歧视 ， 历史
上 曾 屠杀 印第安 原 住民 ， 就 给 他国 扣 上 “ 种族 灭绝 ” 的 帽子 ； 自己 在 社交 平台 埋 下 虚假信息网 ， 便 指责 他国 也 用 同样 手段 。

美国 深谙 宣传 的 渗透力 和 信息战 的 无孔不入 ， 于是 不 惜花 重金 在 社交 媒体 平台 上 搞小动作 。 按照 美国 国会 的 说法 ， 他们 为 建立 虚假信息 网络 已经 连 续 投资 5 年
， 每年 砸 入 3亿 美元 。

--
徐潘依如

数据库 背后 的 “ 群狼 ” 只 是 西方 所 建立 的 庞大 政治宣传 网络 的 一 小 部分 。

The wolves behind the database is just a small fraction of the
massive propaganda network the West has buil t .

美国 在 搭建 这 张 虚假信息 网上 投入 的 巨额 资金 ， 包括 其 暗中 操纵 的 影响力 运动 ， 以及 公开 对 其 批评者 的 嘲弄 和 骚扰 ， 正在 让 全球 对 新疆 和 其他 地区 的 认知 越 来
越 背离 真相 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-87">
<text>

相 较 于 其他 学术 期刊 ， 马克思主义 理论 期刊 具有 鲜明 的 政治性 。 马克思主义 理论 期刊 应 清晰 自身 定位 ， 一方面 ， 坚持 政治性 与 学术性 相 统一 。 既 不 能 一味 强调
学术性 ， 忽视 政治 大 环境 ； 也 不 能 过分 追求 政治性 ， 以 政治宣传 代替 学术 研究 ， 不 注重 学术 论证 和 学理 阐释 。 马克思主义 理论 期刊 既 要 讲 学术 ， 也 要 讲 政治 。 政治
话语 需要 学理 的 支撑 和 审视 ， 善于 用 学术 话语 阐释 政治 话语 。 另一方面 ， 坚持 问题 意识 与 理论 思维 的 统一 。 坚持 和 发展 马克思主义 ， 既 要 有 问题 意识 ， 也 要 有 理论
洞见 ， 强化 问题 导向 ， 以 问题 为 中心 ， 促进 马克思主义 理论 创新 。 切实 做 好 马克思主义 理论 期刊 的 内容 建设 ， 发挥 好 马克思主义 理论 期刊 在 哲学 社会科学 中 的 引 领
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-88">
<text>

思政 教育 从 小学 阶段 就 已经 开始 ， 长 时间 的 学习 难免 会 引起 学生 的 忽视 ， 要 借助 新 媒体 技术 ， 用 多样化 的 技术 手段 积极 宣传 在 高等教育 阶段 接收 思想 政治 教育
的 重要性 ， 并 在 日常 的 娱乐 生活 中 注重 进行 正面 的 思想 引导 ， 让 学生 感受 到 正 能量 ， 充满 活力 。 借助 新 媒体 技术 进行 思想 政治宣传 相 比较 传统 的 教学 方式 而言 ， 更
容易 被 接收 ， 更 容易 对 学生 的 思想 、 行为 产生 影响 ， 思政 教育 影响 的 广度 和 深度 将 更 远 。 可以 通过 VR 技术 、 短视频 等 方式 让 学生 学习 和 了 解战 火风飞 年代 奋进 的
青年 学生 对 祖国 发展 做出 的 不朽 贡献 ， 也 可以 将 主流 电视剧 进行 转发 推荐 ， 加深 学习 印象 ， 比如 《 觉醒年代 》 《 新青年 》 等 ， 要 充分 利用 新 媒体 便捷 的 优势 ， 让 学
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-89">
<text>
世界 周刊 丨 国内 危机 重重 美国 却 用 霸权 掩盖

“ 这 实际上 只是 一 场 关于 标签 的 辩论 ， 这 对于 政治宣传 ， 以及 最终 的 政治 遗产 很 重要 。 拜登 不 希望 看到 自己 被 贴 上 经济 陷入 衰退 的 标签 。 ”

面对 经济 衰退 普通 民众 深 有 体会
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-9">
<text>
人民网 >gt; >gt; 国际

国际 观察 ： 美国 炮制 虚假信息 添 新 证

辛岳
--

近日 ， 美国 斯坦福 大学 网络 观察室 和 社交 平台 分析 公司 Graphika 联合 发布 的 《 五 年 亲 西方 秘密 影响 行动 的 评估 》 研究 报告 显示 ， 过去 五 年 间 ， 美国 利用 社
交 媒体 针对 包括 中国 在内 的 特定 国 家 和 地区 散布 虚假信息 。 作为 世界 最 大 的 “ 谎言 制造机 ” ， 美国 捏造 、 散布 虚假信息 屡见不鲜 ， 早已 毫无 信誉 可言 。

这 是 2021年 4月 20日 拍摄 的 美国 华盛顿 白宫 。 新华社 记者 刘杰 摄

美国 对 别国 的 虚假信息 攻势 由来已久 。 早 在 冷战 时期 ， 美国 中央 情报局 就 发起 “ 知更鸟 计划 ” ， 在 世界 各地 收买 媒体 从业 人员 ， 通过 操纵 媒体 影响 大众 舆论 。 “ 我
们 撒谎 、 我们 欺骗 、 我们 偷窃 … … 这 才 是 美国 不 断 探索 进取 的 荣耀 。 ” 美国 前 国务卿 蓬佩奥 的 这 句 “ 名言 ” ， 可以 说是 对 “ 谎言帝国 ” 的 精准 概括 。

经过 长期 发展 ， 美国 已 形成 “ 自产自销 ” 虚假信息 的 “ 一条龙 ” 谎言 链条 。 利用 、 伪装 成 学者 和 媒体 是 美国 自 编 自 导 弥天大谎 的 惯用 手段 。 美国 国际 媒体署 管理 的
新闻 机构 曾 用 几十 种 语言 制作 有关 新疆 所谓 “ 种族 灭绝 ” “ 强迫 劳动 ” 的 新闻 报道 和 “ 宣传品 ” ， 并 协调 盟国 媒体 机构 转载 报道 。 斯坦福 大学 研究 报告 发现 ， 美国
炮制 的 虚假 账号 正是 通过 捏造 、 冒充 所谓 “ 独立 ” 新闻 机构 ， 试图 引起 话题 。
--
， 阻碍 中国 同 发展中国 家 开展 合作 。

为 传播 虚假信息 ， 美国 还 制定 了 “ 影响力 行动 ” 等 一 系列 战略 建立 造谣 网络 。 斯坦福 大学 研究 报告 显示 ， 2022年 7月 和 8月 ， 脸 书 、 推特 等 社交 媒体 “ 首 次 发
现 并 清除 面向 海外 推动 美国 利益 的 ‘ 影响力 行动 ’ ” ， 脸 书母 公司 Met a称 发现 有 账户 “ 协调 一致 ” 发布 虚假信息 。 这些 账号 在 社交 媒体 平台 宣扬 亲西方 的 言论
， 并 诋毁 中国 等 国 家 。 报告 发布 后 ， 《 华盛顿邮报 》 报道 称 ， 美国 国防部 迫于 压力 ， 不 得 不 宣布 将 对 美军 实施 秘密 信息战 的 方式 进行 审查 。

《 纽约时报 》 对 “ 影响力 行动 ” 的 相关 报道 。 图片 来 源 ： 《 纽约时报 》 网站 截图

美国 长期 肆意 造谣 编谎 ， 是 因为 有利可图 。 在 党派 政治 、 选举 政治 操控 下 ， 美国 政客 热衷 于 借 虚假信息 自我 辩护 乃至 构陷 政敌 ， 为 党 争 服务 。 美国 智库曼 哈 顿 政策
研究所 高级 研究员 布莱恩 ・利德尔 发现 ， 拜登 政府 错误 引用 穆迪 分析 公司 数据 ， 夸大 其 经济 政策 对 扩大 就业 的 作用 。 美国 参议员 兰德・ 保 罗 曾 直言 ： “ 谁 是 世界 上
最 大 的 虚假信息 传播者 ？ 美国 政府 。 ”

对外 ， 美国 惯于 对外 发动 “ 舆论 战 ” “ 认知战 ” ， 把 虚假信息 作为 打压 他国 甚至 发动 战争 的 借口 ， 以 维护 自身 霸权 。 在 联合国 安理会 ， 美国 把 一 管 “ 洗衣粉 ” 称为
“ 伊拉克 拥有 大规模 杀伤性 武器 ” 的 所谓 “ 证据 ” ， 悍然 发动 伊拉克 战争 ， 令 生灵涂炭 ， 民不聊生 。 在 叙利亚 ， 美国 以 “ 白 头盔 ” 组织 摆拍 视频 为由 展开 空袭 ， 造
成 数以千计 的 无辜 平民 身亡 。

“ 谎言帝国 ” 四处 招摇撞骗 ， 导致 美国 民众 对 本国 政府 的 信任度 一落千丈 。 全球 知名 公关 咨询 公司 爱德曼 发布 的 2022年 全球 信任度 调查 报告 显示 ， 美国 民众 对
政府 的 信任度 仅 为 39 % ， 接近 1958年 以 来 历史 低点 。 国际 社会 也 已 识破 美国 捏造 和 传播 虚假信息 的 伎俩 ， 2020年 ， 由 《 美国新闻与世界报道 》 、 BA V
咨询 公司 和 宾夕法尼亚 大学 沃顿 商学院 共同 进行 的 调查 显示 ， 世界 对 美国 的 信任度 与 2016年 相比 下降 了 50 % ， 降幅 居 世界 首 位 。

造谣 换 不 来 真正 的 “ 影响力 ” ， 传播 虚假信息 正在 加速 美国 自身 信誉 的 破产 。 美方 该 做 的 是 停止 借 谎言 渔利 ， 停止 污蔑 抹黑 别国 ， 否则 终将 失信 失义 。

( 责编 ： 崔译戈 、 常红 )
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-90">
<text>
歌曲 创作 中 的 重要 地位 。 但 红军 中 的 这些 填词者 也 非 职业 词作 家 ， 而 大多 是 红军 宣传工作者 ， 甚至 是 部队 各级 政治 主官 ， 下 至 连 指导员 ， 上 至 军师 一级 的 政治委员
。 井冈山 斗争 时期 的 何长工 ， 中央 苏区 的 李伯钊 、 沙可夫 ， 长征 中 的 彭加伦 、 陆定一 ， 作为 红军 中 的 知识分子 ， 都 是 选曲 填词 的 能手 ， 他们 的 词作 在 服务 军事 斗争
的 政治宣传 中 发挥 了 重要 作用 。

1928年 6月 ， 红四军 取得 七溪岭 、 龙源口 战斗 胜利 后 ， 时 任 红28 团 党代表 的 何长工 就 曾 接受 毛泽东 布置 的 任务 ， 编写 了 一 首 《 劝白军士兵歌 》 ， 并 使 其
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-91">
<text>
倒 逼 政治 发展 转型 ， 给 政治 安全带 来 新 课题 新 挑战 。 从 历史 上 看 ， 技术 进步 对 社会 结构 、 社会关系 、 社会 文化 等 带 来 的 变化 和 冲击 ， 从 来不 以 人 的 意志 为 转移 。 当
火枪 火炮 成为 主战 兵器 时 ， 继续 用 木盾 藤牌 来 保卫 政权 的 行为 无疑 是 愚蠢 的 ， 迫切 需要 当政者 转变 思想 观念 ， 寻求 能够 有效 维护 政治 安全 的 新 模式 新 方法 。 当 计算
机 网络 技术 逐渐 普及时 ， 西方 国 家 政党 纷纷 利用 互联网 进行 政治宣传 和 选举 拉 票 。 人工智能 较之以往 的 技术 ， 拥有 前所未有 的 机器 “ 主观 能动性 ” 优势 ， 必将 对 政
治 安全 理念 、 安全 机制 、 安全 路径 等 带 来 更 大 的 改变 。

--
挑战 之 三 ： 人工智能 技术 及其 背后 的 数据 和 算法 潜移默化 引导 公众 舆论 ， 进而 影响 人 的 政治 判断 和 政治 选择 ， 间接 把 控 政治 走向 。 在 人工智能 时代 ， 数据 和 算
法 就 是 新 的 权力 。 近年 来 围绕 国 家 大选 而 展开 的 种种 政治 运作 显示 ： 拥有 数据 和 技术 能够 从 一定 程度 上 影响 政治 议程 。 据 有关 媒体 报道 ， 2020年 美国 总统 大选
期间 ， 有人 利用 网络 社交 平台 的 大量 机器人 账号 ， 发布 海量 虚假信息 ， 力图 影响 选民 的 认知 、 判断 与 选择 。 类似 的 情况 ， 也 曾 出现 在 2016年 的 美国 大选 、 20
17年 的 英国 大选 和 法国 大选 中 。 这些 案例 非常 清晰 地 显示 ： 只要 拥有 足够 丰富 的 数据 和 准确 的 算法 ， 技术 企业 就 能够 为 竞争性 选举 施加 针对性 影响 。 当 某种 特定
政治 结果 发生 时 ， 人们 很 难 判断 这 是 民众 正常 的 利益 诉求 ， 还是 被 有目 的 地 引导 的 结果 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-92">
<text>
乌 冲突 提高 价 格 。 ”

“ 价 格 谈判 像 是 政治宣传 ”

根据 美国 汽车 协会 的 数据 ， 6月 22日 的 汽油 平均 价 格 为 每 加仑 4 . 955 美元 ， 比 一个 月 前 高 出 37 美分 ， 比 一 年 前 高 出 1 . 89 美元 。
--

对于 许多 炼油商 而言 ， 投资 重 开 工厂 的 财务 风险 很 大 ， 但 政府 并未 出台 任何 具有 实质 意义 的 协助 措施 ， 只是 不 断 指责 行业 。 石油 生产 商赫斯 公司 首席 执行官 约
翰 · 赫斯 23日 甚至 表示 ， 他 认为 白宫 发起 的 汽油 价 格 谈判 更 像 是 一 场 政治宣传 ， 而 不 是 关于 政策 和 实质 内容 的 讨论 。 （ 央视 记者 顾乡 刘旭 ）
[ 责编 ： 孙满桃 ]
阅读 剩余 全文 （ ）
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-93">
<text>
* EN

塔利班 发言人 ： “ 强迫 少女 嫁 圣战者 ” 是 恶毒 政治宣传 ， 同时 声称 塔利班 保护 私有 财产

2021 - 08 - 15 17 : 08 来 源 ： 环球 网

【 环球网 报道 】 据 “ 今日 印度 ” 报道 ， 针对 塔利班 “ 强迫 年轻 女孩 嫁 给 圣战者 ” 的 指控 ， 塔利班 发言人 沙欣 15日 连 发 多 推 进行 反驳 ， 称 这 是 “ 毫无 依据 的 恶
毒 政治宣传 ” 。 他 还 说 塔利班 将 会 保护 私有 财产 。

近日 ， 一 段 据称 是 塔利班 士兵 强迫 一 名 12 岁 少女 嫁 给 一 名 士兵 的 视频 在 社交 媒体 上 流传 。 在 连 续 发 的 四 条 推特 中 ， 沙欣 称 阿富汗 政府 进行 了 “ 毫无 依据 的 恶
毒 政治宣传 ， 有时候 声称 塔利班 强迫 人们 把 女儿 出嫁 ， 或者 嫁 给 圣战者 。 有时候 他们 说 圣战者 正在 杀人 ， 杀害 囚犯 和 俘虏 ， 还有 各种各样 的 指控 。 这些 全都 没有 依
据 。 ” 沙欣 写道 。

塔利班 发言人 ： “ 强迫 少女 嫁 圣战者 ” 是 恶毒 政治宣传 ， 同时 声称 塔利班 保护 私有 财产

此外 沙欣 还 说 ， 塔利班 对 任何人 的 私有 财产 ， 包括 汽车 、 土地 、 房屋 、 市场 和 商店 等 都 不 感 兴趣 ， 相反 还 将 保护 人们 的 生命 财产 安全 当做 首要 责任 。 ↓

塔利班 发言人 ： “ 强迫 少女 嫁 圣战者 ” 是 恶毒 政治宣传 ， 同时 声称 塔利班 保护 私有 财产

在 最新 的 一 条 推特 中 ， 沙欣 再次 提到 ， 所有 关于 塔利班 强迫 人们 把 年轻 女孩 嫁 给 塔利班 士兵 的 说法 都 “ 完全 错误 ” ， 是 “ 有毒 的 政治宣传 ” 。

塔利班 发言人 ： “ 强迫 少女 嫁 圣战者 ” 是 恶毒 政治宣传 ， 同时 声称 塔利班 保护 私有 财产

据 最新 报道 ， 塔利班 目前 已 包围 喀布尔 。 阿富汗 塔利班 发言人 穆贾希德 在 社交 媒体 上 发布 消息 称 ， 塔利班 将 不 在 阿富汗 首都 喀布尔 作战 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-94">
<text>
* EN

美 反 华 议员 发 报告 宣称 新 冠源 自 武汉 实验室 ， 网友 ： 误导性 政治宣传

2021 - 08 - 0 2 18 : 16 来 源 ： 环球 网
--
： 美国 情报 机构 并 未 得出 这 一 结论 。

美 反 华 议员 发 报告 宣称 新 冠源 自 武汉 实验室 ， 网友 ： 误导性 政治宣传

据 报道 ， 这 份 由 美国 众议院 外交 事务 委员会 的 共和党 议员 迈克 · 麦考尔 发布 的 报告 ， 宣称 引用 了 “ 大量 证据 ” ， 认为 武汉 病毒 研究所 的 科学 家 在 美国 专 家 以及
--
值得 注意 的 是 ， 路透社 报道 并 未 详细 说明 报告 中 援引 的 所谓 “ 大量 证据 ” ， 具体 是 指什 么 。

美 反 华 议员 发 报告 宣称 新 冠源 自 武汉 实验室 ， 网友 ： 误导性 政治宣传

路透社 在 推特 上 发布 这 则 新闻 后 ， 美国 共和党 议员 的 言论 ， 被 众多 外国 网友 嘲讽 。 ↓

美 反 华 议员 发 报告 宣称 新 冠源 自 武汉 实验室 ， 网友 ： 误导性 政治宣传

“ 你 应该 把 共和党 几 个 字 放 到 推文 开头 ， 这样 我 就 不 会 往 下 读 了 。 ”

美 反 华 议员 发 报告 宣称 新 冠源 自 武汉 实验室 ， 网友 ： 误导性 政治宣传

“ 共和党 人 的 报告 ， 真 的 吗 ？ 哈哈哈 。 ”

“ 从 我 过去 几 个 月 听到 的 每 一 位 科学 家 在 这 件 事 上 的 表态 来 看 ， 这种 理论 缺乏 完整 的 科学 证据 。 这 只 是 共和党 的 一些 误导性 政治宣传 罢了 ”

关于 新冠 病毒 溯源 ， 美国 一些 势力 无视 外界 对 其 质疑 ， 尤其 是 德特里克堡 生物 实验室 的 诸多 疑点 ， 反而 “ 倒打一耙 ” 试图 抹黑 中国 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-95">
<text>
美国 民调 ： 超 半数 受访者 对 美国 前途 感到 悲观

同时 ， 枪支 暴力 事件 频 发 ， 种族主义 顽疾 难以 去除 。 一 位 匿名 的 美国 问题 专 家 26日 指出 ， 这 一 民调 结果 意味着 越 来 越 多 美国 人 已经 看透 政治宣传 背后 美国 政
府 的 本质 ， 发现 新 一 届 美国 政府 并 无 能力 解决 困扰 美国 的 很多 问题 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-96">
<text>
同样 不 快 的 还有 日本 网友 。

有 网友 表示 ， “ 韩国队 表面 上 叫 ‘ 代表团 ’ ， 实际上 是 政治宣传 团体 ， 请 韩国队 和 韩国 媒体 随便 抵制 东京 奥运会 ， 然后 趁早 请 回 吧 。 针对 （ 韩方 的 ） 仇恨 言论
， 日本 政府 必须 要 毅然 地 向 国际 社会 倾诉 ， 不 能 被 蒙混 过去 ” ↓
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-97">
<text>
学生会 会费 。 这 已 是 香港 第4 所 大学 停止 为 学生会 代收 会费 。 报道 称 ， 香港 理工大学 回复 传媒 查询 时 表示 ， 学生会 是 本地 独立 注册 团体 ， 应 由 学生 会 自行 处理 财政
事务 ， 包括 收 会费 。 报道 称 ， 香港 多 家 大学 先后 决定 停止 为 本校 学生会 代收 会费 。 香港 城市 大学 早 于 去年 以 “ 审计 问题 ” 为由 拒绝 代行 有关 工作 。 香港 中文 大学 则
于 今年 2月 表示 ， 因 应候 任 “ 内阁 ” “ 朔夜 ” 言论 影响 校誉 、 利用 校园 作为 政治宣传 的 平台 ， 更 可能 违法 ， 决定 暂停 为 学生 会代 收 学生会 会费 。 香港 大学 则 于 今年
4月 表示 ， 学生会 近年 行事 日趋 政治化 ， 令 大学 的 整体 利益 和 声誉 蒙损 ， 故此 停止 代 为 收取 学生会 会费 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-98">
<text>

可 让 海雯娜 震惊 的 是 ， 在 这 次 采访 之后 ， 《 世界报 》 最终 刊 发出 来 的 内容 却 根本 不 是 他们 这 次 采访 的 内容 ， 而是 通过 “ 去 人性化 ” 的 描写 ， 将 这 位 有血有肉 的
德国 小姑娘 ， 抹黑 成 了 一个 帮 中国 政府 做 “ 政治宣传 ， 去 “ 渗透 和 影响 ” 德国 的 危险 分子 。

21 岁 德国 女孩 驳斥 对 中国 抹黑 ， 惨遭 西方 恶 势力 绞杀
--

当然 ， 海雯娜 并 不 是 此事 中 唯一 的 受害者 ， 我们 许许多多 中国 网民 ， 以及 中国 的 外交官 ， 也 是 受害者 ， 也 像 她 一样 ， 遭到 了 《 世界报 》 和 “ 战略 对话 研究所 ”
那种 “ 去 人性化 ” 的 歪曲 和 抹黑 ， 把 只是 希望 说 出 真相 ， 只是 不 希望 别人 胡乱 抹黑 自己 国 家 ， 有血有肉 的 我们 ， 都 统统 歪曲 成 了 一个个 极权政府 的 “ 政治宣传 机器
” 。
</text>
</page> §
<page="zh-99">
<text>

阿 切尔博 和 阿 尔博雷西 都 坚决 反对 美国 试图 挑起 针对 中国 的 “ 新 冷战 ” 。 阿 切尔博 强调 ， “ 我们 完全 不 同意 这种 行为 ， 对 近期 G7峰会 结果 也 持 否 定 态度 ” 。
“ 疫情 蔓延 给 我们 带 来 了 前所未有 的 心理 和 经济 冲击 ， 一些 政治宣传 试图 用 铺天盖地 的 ‘ 中国 病毒 ’ 谎言 分散 公众 注意力 ， 掩盖 资本主义 缺陷 造成 的 问题 ” ， “ 我
们 要 深刻 反思 资本主义 经济 和 金融 体系 的 缺陷 ， 反思 其 对 全世界 健康 带 来 的 负面 影响 ” 。
</text>
</page> §
</lang>
