
   Content
   Skip to Main ContentAccessibility Help
   down arrows to review and enter to select.
   Search

Quick Links



   China linked to propaganda campaign targeting Trudeau, Poilievre, says
   Global Affairs | CBC News Loaded
   Politics

China linked to propaganda campaign targeting Trudeau, Poilievre, says Global
Affairs

   The Chinese government likely was behind a “spamouflage” disinformation
   campaign targeting Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Conservative Leader
   Pierre Poilievre and other MPs in August and September, says Global
   Affairs Canada.

GAC says goal of 'spamouflage' campaign was to silence PRC critics

   Catharine Tunney · CBC News · Posted: Oct 23, 2023 11:57 AM EDT | Last
   Updated: October 24
   Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Chinese President Xi Jinping
   listen to opening remarks at a plenary session at the G20 Summit in
   Osaka, Japan, Friday June 28, 2019.
   Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and Chinese President Xi Jinping listen
   to opening remarks at a plenary session at the G20 Summit in Osaka,
   Japan on June 28, 2019. GAC says the PRC targeted Trudeau and other MPs
   with an online propaganda campaign. (Adrian Wyld/The Canadian Press)

Social Sharing

   The Chinese government likely was behind a "spamouflage" disinformation
   campaign targeting Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Conservative Leader
   Pierre Poilievre and other MPs in August and September, says Global
   Affairs Canada.

   The department's Rapid Response Mechanism (RRM), which was set up to
   monitor foreign state-sponsored disinformation efforts, said the
   campaign was "connected to the People's Republic of China" and was
   meant to curb criticism of the communist regime.

   According to a report released Monday morning, the propaganda campaign
   began in August and targeted dozens of MPs from across the political
   spectrum.

   A "spamouflage" campaign is one which uses a network of new or hijacked
   social media accounts to post propaganda messages across
   various platforms, such as Facebook, X/Twitter, Instagram, YouTube,
   Medium, Reddit, TikTok and LinkedIn.
   A politician looks to his right as he leaves a news conference in a
   legislature.
   Conservative Leader Pierre Poilievre was targeted by the campaign, says
   GAC. (Justin Tang/The Canadian Press)

   Global Affairs Canada said the bot network picked up steam over the
   September long weekend, leaving thousands of comments in English and
   French on the social media accounts of MPs.

   The posts claimed a critic of the Chinese Communist Party in Canada had
   accused the various MPs of criminal and ethical violations, said Global
   Affairs Canada. The Chinese campaign also used what were
   likely "deepfake" manipulated videos, the department said.

   An email from GAC officials to the affected MPs said 47 of them from
   across Canada were targeted. The email advised MPs on how to protect
   themselves from foreign interference and assured them the campaign did
   not present a threat to their safety.

   "It is our assessment that the information operation was intended to
   negatively impact your reputation, not to cause you physical harm or
   endanger your family," the email said.
       How Canada has been helping China hunt for fugitives for decades


   The GAC report says the goal of the the operation was twofold.

   "First, it likely seeks to discredit and denigrate the targeted MPs
   through seemingly organic posts, alleging impropriety, by posting waves
   of social media posts and videos that call into question the political
   and ethical standards of the MPs, using a popular Chinese-speaking
   figure in Canada," said the report.

   "Second, it likely seeks to silence criticism of the CCP by getting MPs
   to distance themselves from the critic and discouraging wider online
   communities from engaging with them."

Department flagged campaign against MP Chong

   Global Affairs Canada said the government will continue to monitor the
   situation and respond when necessary and appropriate, "including
   through public disclosure and diplomatic engagement."

   MPs also have been offered a more thorough briefing by Global Affairs
   Canada.

   The government said the same bot networks were engaged in
   spreading disinformation claiming that the Hawaiian wildfires were
   caused by a secret U.S. military "weather weapon," and have been
   connected to disinformation about Japan's decision in August 2023 to
   release millions of tons of treated radioactive water from the wrecked
   Fukushima nuclear power plant.

   In August, the Rapid Response Mechanism reported that a disinformation
   operation on the Chinese social media platform WeChat had spread false
   information about Conservative MP Michael Chong. That campaign
   spread false narratives about his identity, including commentary and
   claims about his background, political stances and family heritage.
   WATCH | PM, MPs targets of disinformation campaign:

China likely targeted PM, MPs in propaganda campaign, Global Affairs says

   30 days ago
   Duration 2:01
   Featured VideoGlobal Affairs Canada says Prime Minister Justin Trudeau,
   Opposition Leader Pierre Poilievre and other MPs were the targets of a
   ‘spamouflage’ campaign, likely by China's government, that spread
   propaganda and disinformation on social media.

   At the time, GAC said China's role in the information operation was
   "highly probable."

   In a statement on Monday, Chong said the Trudeau government has
   neglected to protect Canadians from authoritarian governments on
   Canadian soil.

   "From foreign police stations illegally operating here to interference
   in our elections, these foreign interference threats have
   disproportionately targeted diaspora communities," he said. "It's time
   the Trudeau government put the safety and security of Canadians first."

Details of foreign interference inquiry still unclear

   The Liberal government has been under pressure from the opposition to
   take foreign interference more seriously following media reports of
   China's interference in the 2019 and 2021 elections.

   The government has agreed to hold a public inquiry into foreign
   election interference and has tapped Quebec Court of Appeal Justice
   Marie-Josée Hogue to lead it.

   It's still not yet clear when the hearings will start and how much of
   Hogue's work will be made public, given national security concerns.

   Hogue has been tasked with looking into interference by China, Russia,
   other foreign states and non-state actors in the 2019 and 2021
   elections.

   She is also expected to examine how intelligence flowed to
   decision-makers in the context of the past two elections.

   Speaking to reporters on Monday, Public Safety Minister Dominic LeBlanc
   said he believes Hogue's mandate is broad enough to allow her to look
   into spamouflage. He said it's ultimately up to her and her team.

   "If at the root of this foreign interference activity is a foreign
   state or non-state actor deliberately attempting to inflict damage and
   circulate disinformation in a Canadian electoral context, absolutely

   Hogue has to deliver an interim report by the end of February. A final
   report is due by the end of 2024.

   Beijing has denied interfering in Canada's affairs.

ABOUT THE AUTHOR

   Catharine Tunney

   Reporter

   Catharine Tunney is a reporter with CBC's Parliament Hill bureau, where
   she covers national security and the RCMP. She worked previously for
   CBC in Nova Scotia. You can reach her at catharine.tunney@cbc.ca

   CBC's Journalistic Standards and Practices|About CBC News

CBC Newsletters

   Add some “good” to your morning and evening.

   A variety of newsletters you'll love, delivered straight to you.
   Sign up now

Footer Links

My Account


Connect with CBC


Contact CBC


   Audience Relations, CBC
   P.O. Box 500 Station A
   Toronto, ON
   Canada, M5W 1E6

   Toll-free (Canada only):
   1-866-306-4636

About CBC


Services


Accessibility

   It is a priority for CBC to create products that are accessible to all
   in Canada including people with visual, hearing, motor and cognitive
   challenges.

   Closed Captioning and Described Video is available for many CBC shows
   offered on CBC Gem.



   now
