   Feed


               o US
               o World
               o Politics
               o Entertainment
               o HealthWatch
               o MoneyWatch
               o CBS Village
               o Technology
               o Science
               o Crime
               o Sports
               o Essentials
               o
                      several border crossings closed
                      be returned in deal
                      Biden investigation
                      Taylor Swift's impact
                      reports of hospitalizations
                      California, police say
                      to protect identity
                      green mamba escapes
               o Latest
               o Video
               o Photos
               o Podcasts
               o In Depth
               o Local
               o A Moment With…
               o Innovators & Disruptors
               o Log In
               o Newsletters
               o Mobile
               o RSS
               o CBS Store
               o Paramount+
               o Join Our Talent Community
               o Davos 2023

   Watch CBS News

   CBS Saturday Morning

Social media disinformation spreads amid war in Israel

   cbs-mornings-saturday

   By Jo Ling Kent, Kerry Breen

   October 14, 2023 / 8:33 AM EDT / CBS News


   Misinformation amid the Israel-Hamas war 03:00

   As the war in Israel and Gaza plays out in real time on social media,
   experts say bad information and propaganda are spreading on X, formerly
   known as Twitter.

   Alethea, a research group, said that they had detected a network of at
   least 67 accounts on the site posting false content about the war.
   Those posts, which include mistranslated videos, have received millions
   of views.

   "It matters whether or not people believe it," said Lisa Kaplan, the
   Alethea founder, told CBS News. "The more times that people are able to
   view content of a similar nature, the more opportunities an actor has
   to convince somebody of something that may or may not be true."

   The war comes after Elon Musk, the owner of X, laid off much of the
   team responsible for monitoring posts on the site. On Tuesday, the
   European Union sent the billionaire a letter asking him to immediately
   remove "illegal content and disinformation." If not, "penalties can be
   imposed," the E.U. warned.

   X said early last week that they have already removed "Hamas-affiliated
   accounts" and "several hundred accounts." Other major social media
   platforms, including Facebook, TikTok, and Snap told CBS News that they
   have increased their resources to fight disinformation.

   Mike Caulfield, a research scientist at the Center for an Informed
   Public, a multidisciplinary research center at Seattle's University of
   Washington, said that ongoing disinformation can cause chaos.

   "When we flood people with this sea of unvetted information, much of it
   deceptive, we're throwing away the goodwill of our citizens," Caulfield
   said. "We're opening the door to a variety of people that want to
   manipulate their goodwill."

   Kaplan said as the war continues, she and Alethea expect to see the
   online world "get more complicated."

   "More actors will be weaponizing information," she said.

Israel & Hamas At War

   More
   1122-cmo-hostage-family-2472396-640x360.jpg
   Family of 3-year-old American hostage hopes she will be returned in
   deal
   netanyahu.jpg
   Israeli government approves deal for hostage release, short cease-fire
   Hostage Advocates Rally Outside Unicef Offices In Tel Aviv
   Hope, but no relief yet for desperate Palestinian or Israeli families
   EGYPT-PALESTINIAN-ISRAEL-CONFLICT
   Babies from Gaza make it to Egypt as 2nd hospital reportedly encircled
   Qatari Foreign Minister Mohammed bin Abdulrahman bin Jassim al-Thani
   speaks during a press conference in Doha on November 19, 2023.
   Negotiators near deal with Hamas to release hostages
   More
   In:

   Jo Ling Kent

   Jo Ling Kent is a senior business and technology correspondent for CBS
   News.
   Twitter Instagram

   First published on October 14, 2023 / 8:33 AM EDT

   Thanks for reading CBS NEWS.
   Create your free account or log in
   for more features.
   Please enter email address to continue
   Please enter valid email address to continue

More from CBS News

Paris Hilton's media company joins brands pulling ads from X

DeSantis won't condemn Musk for endorsing antisemitic post, saying 'I did not
see the comment'

Elon Musk's X sues Media Matters as advertisers flee over report on hate
groups

Family of 3-year-old American hostage hopes she will be returned in deal

   Copyright ©2023 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved.


   View CBS News In
   CBS News App Open
   Chrome Safari Continue

   Be the first to know
   Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive
   reporting.
