
   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=http://GTM-TKZ5V3

   Skip to content
   Donate JTA


   Search for: ____________________ Search

Sections


Trending Topics


   Search for: ____________________ Search
   About Donate
   JTA
   EST 1917

Top News



Get JTA's Daily Briefing in your inbox


   I accept the JTA Privacy Policy.
   Please accept the JTA Privacy Policy

   By submitting the above I agree to the privacy policy and terms of use
   of JTA.org

   Israel

Fearing denial and disinformation, Israel shows journalists raw footage of
Hamas attacks

   By Eliyahu Freedman October 23, 2023 2:51 pm
   An Israeli government press conference, in which reporters saw footage
   of Hamas' Oct. 7 attack on Israel, held on Oct. 23, 2023. (Eliyahu
   Freedman)
   An Israeli government press conference, in which reporters saw footage
   of Hamas' Oct. 7 attack on Israel, held on Oct. 23, 2023. (Eliyahu
   Freedman)
   Advertisement

   TEL AVIV (JTA) — On Monday morning, Roxane Runel posted a photograph to
   Instagram of two Israel military officers addressing a crowd of
   reporters in an auditorium. Behind them is a giant television screen.

   “Press conference between the international media and the Israeli army
   after it disseminated images and recordings of the Oct. 7 attacks,”
   Runel, a reporter for France’s M6 television channel, wrote across the
   photo, touting an upcoming broadcast. “Why? What is at stake?”

   Runel, who has reported from several countries, has already interviewed
   relatives of Israeli hostages held in Gaza after Hamas’ Oct. 7 invasion
   of Israel, which killed and wounded thousands. Yet in the middle of
   Monday’s screening of the attack footage, she was one of a number of
   journalists who stepped out early.

   “It was too much,” she told the Jewish Telegraphic Agency. “I knew
   coming here that the hardest thing for me would not be the images but
   the sound, because you can close your eyes if the images are too much.”

   Runel was one of about 200 journalists who attended the screening,
   which the Israeli government billed as raw and unedited audio and video
   taken from Hamas terrorists’ body cameras and phones as they massacred
   communities on Israel’s border with Gaza. In addition to clips of Hamas
   attackers shooting people, the 43-minute compilation contained graphic
   images of children being murdered, bodies burned, civilians being mowed
   down and other atrocities.

   Gruesome photos and videos have circulated online in the two weeks
   after the attack, along with harrowing accounts of the violence visited
   upon Israelis. The images have become so ubiquitous that Jewish day
   schools in the United States cautioned students to delete their social
   media apps to avoid seeing them, while journalists and other public
   figures have expressed ambivalence about sharing them.

   The IDF has taken delegations of foreign journalists into some of the
   hardest-hit communities, with one spokesperson saying just days after
   the attack, “Walking through here is like Eisenhower walking through
   Bergen-Belsen and seeing the destruction and carnage. The world needs
   to witness this firsthand.”

   Now, the Israeli government’s decision to broadcast the footage came as
   it is increasingly concerned that people are questioning the scale and
   depravity of Hamas’ massacre. Social media users and journalists alike
   have expressed skepticism about widespread reports and testimonies of
   the attack’s most harrowing details, often at the same time as they
   have sought to shift attention toward the escalating casualties of
   Israel’s retaliatory war in Gaza, where it aims to depose Hamas.

   “I can’t believe I’m saying this and I can’t believe that we as a
   country are having to do this,” said Eylon Levy, an Israeli government
   spokesman, in a video announcing the press conference. “As we work to
   defeat the terror organization that brutalized our people, we are
   witnessing a Holocaust denial-like phenomenon evolving in real time as
   people are casting doubt on the magnitude of the atrocities that Hamas
   committed against our people, and in fact recorded in order to glorify
   that violence.”

   At the press conference, held at a military base north of Tel Aviv,
   chief IDF spokesperson Adm. Daniel Hagari said the military had “been
   thinking about this for a couple of days, whether to show it or not,”
   but decided that screening the footage served as a valuable reminder of
   the atrocities both for the international media covering the war and
   Israelis themselves.

   “We will not let the world forget who we are fighting,” he said, adding
   that the footage helps Israelis “to understand ourselves what we are
   fighting for.”

   In addition, IDF Maj. Gen. Mickey Edelstein told the reporters, the
   Israeli military has evidence it cannot show of sexual violence
   committed by the Hamas terrorists as well as evidence of links between
   Hamas and Iran.

   He dispelled Hamas claims that terrorists unaffiliated with the group
   committed the atrocities, saying that the video shows proof that “the
   vast majority are Hamas” and that the perpetrators attacking civilians
   were dressed in full tactical gear. Written and other evidence the IDF
   has discovered, he added, shows that Hamas had planned “to bring
   hostages and keep families, in order that it would be much more
   painful.”

   Many attendees gasped in horror at difficult elements of the footage,
   and some chose to exit the theater before the screening had finished.
   Runel said her personal “limit” was reached when listening to an audio
   clip of a call on WhatsApp between a Hamas terrorist and his parents,
   made via the stolen cellphone of an Israeli victim.

   “He tells them on the phone — with a voice that is so ecstatic — he
   sounds like he’s out of his mind,” she said. “He was repeating the same
   thing over and over again, ‘I killed 10 of them.’ He was saying this as
   something he was really proud of and he wanted his parents to check the
   Whatsapp” to see videos he sent of the massacre. The man’s father
   reacted with praise, while his mother begged him to return home.

   Amit Palit, a news anchor and correspondent for India TV based in New
   Delhi, said that after reporting on the attacks of Oct. 7 on live
   television, seeing the raw footage helped him understand the “bigger
   picture.” He said the screening “was necessary for many people who have
   some doubts.”

   Palit, who has been covering the war in Israel for the past 12 days,
   was most affected by a video of two young brothers after they lost
   their father, who was murdered in front of them with an explosive while
   the three were hiding together in a bomb shelter at home. The footage
   was among the “very painful” clips he witnessed, he said.

   “He was asking, ‘Dad,’ and the teenager said, ‘Why am I alive?’” Palit
   recounted. “A 13-year-old boy cursing himself, asking why he was alive,
   asking his brother ‘Can you see?’ And he couldn’t see because he lost
   father.”

   Some journalists expressed skepticism about the screening, saying that
   authentic footage compiled by the Israeli army could come with its own
   agenda. Nicolas Coadou, a reporter for BFN TV in France, said the
   footage “is edited, they choose what they want to show us.”

   But he acknowledged that reporting on the press conference would be
   challenging.

   “I have a live [broadcast] in one hour,” he said. “And I don’t know
   what I am going to say.”

Share this:


   Advertisement

Recommended from JTA

   Actress Melissa Barrera wearing a green dress at a premiere screening
   Culture

Susan Sarandon and Melissa Barrera among Hollywood figures facing blowback
for stances on Israel and Jews

   By Andrew Lapin November 22, 2023 3:41 pm

   Politics

Lois Frankel, Jewish Florida Democrat, quits progressive caucus over Israel
differences

   By Ron Kampeas November 22, 2023 2:48 pm

   Sheryl Sandberg
   Israel

Sheryl Sandberg joins Jewish women in calling out lack of concern about
sexual assault of Israelis

   By Jackie Hajdenberg November 22, 2023 12:37 pm

   Soccer
   Sports

Israeli and Polish national soccer teams hold unauthorized moment of silence
before European qualifying match

   By Jacob Gurvis November 22, 2023 11:04 am

   Food

Oct. 7 nearly derailed Berlin’s famous Israeli-Palestinian restaurant. But
it’s back in business.

   By Shira Li Bartov November 22, 2023 10:51 am

   Culture

The world’s first Israeli-Palestinian boy band accidentally picked a wild
moment to make their debut

   By Gabe Friedman November 22, 2023 10:00 am

Most Recent

       blowback for stances on Israel and Jews
       Department staffer at Upper East Side halal cart
       over Israel differences
       about sexual assault of Israelis
       upsetting Jewish advocates
       Borgen in 2021

Get JTA's Daily Briefing in your inbox


   I accept the JTA Privacy Policy.
   Please accept the JTA Privacy Policy

   By submitting the above I agree to the privacy policy and terms of use
   of JTA.org

   Advertisement
