   Disinformation: Pre-Empting It

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Technology


   Today’s Paper

   Technology|U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian Disinformation: Pre-Empting
   It
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/10/26/technology/russian-disinformation-us
   -state-department-campaign.html

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

U.S. Tries New Tack on Russian Disinformation: Pre-Empting It

   The State Department’s Global Engagement Center is taking the unusual
   step of disclosing a covert Russian operation when it is barely off the
   ground.

   People in coats in front of the Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra on a gray day.
   Thousands of believers gathered at the Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra in March. A
   recent article recycling disinformation about the Orthodox holy site
   was an example of an online Russian propaganda campaign in Central and
   South America.Credit...Laetitia Vancon for The New York Times
   Steven Lee Myers

   By Steven Lee Myers
   Published Oct. 26, 2023Updated Oct. 27, 2023
   Leer en español

   An article that appeared in August on an international news outlet,
   Pressenza, recycled a false Russian claim that the West was looting
   religious relics and art from a monastery in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv,
   one of the holiest sites in Russian Orthodoxy.

   The article stands out, U.S. officials said, not because of what it
   claimed — but because of its source and intended audience.

   State Department officials have linked the article to what they
   describe as a covert information operation to spread Russia propaganda
   in Central and South America by producing articles that appear to
   originate with local media organizations, not the Russian government.

   The operation is nascent, but the department’s Global Engagement Center
   is disclosing the influence campaign in hopes of blunting its effect in
   a region where Russia has sought to discredit the United States and
   erode international support for Ukraine.

   The center, which since 2017 has focused on combating propaganda and
   disinformation, routinely details Kremlin efforts, but identifying and
   trying to pre-empt a campaign when it is barely off the ground is a new
   tactic. It is one that reflects the realization that false narratives
   are harder to counter once they have already spread.

   “What we’re trying to do is expose Russia’s hidden hand,” James P.
   Rubin, the center’s coordinator, said in an interview in which he
   described the Russian effort in broad outlines.

   Mr. Rubin said the department was acting “based on new information” but
   declined to elaborate. The disclosure of the campaign recalls the Biden
   administration’s release of intelligence findings about Russia’s
   military before and after its invasion of Ukraine in February 2022.

   It is part of an intensifying campaign for influence in parts of the
   world where American officials and analysts warn Russia’s hostility
   toward the United States and its allies has found fertile soil.

   The State Department released a report last week about the activities
   in Brazil of an international organization, New Resistance, which
   embraces the views of Aleksandr Dugin, a former Soviet dissident who
   has become a prominent advocate of Russia’s imperial ambitions. The
   organization, the report said, promotes Russian disinformation, holds
   seminars and training courses and has supported paramilitary
   activities.

   Image
   Aleksandr Dugin, a prominent advocate of Russia’s imperial
   ambitions.Credit...Alexander Zemlianichenko/Associated Press

   “Russia has exploited distrust of the United States by characterizing
   the latter as intent on resource extraction and endorsing economic
   policies poorly suited to Latin America, offering Russia as a friendly,
   less intrusive alternative,” said another report released last week by
   the United States Institute of Peace, a nonpartisan research
   organization the U.S. Congress founded.

   The new campaign, Mr. Rubin and other officials said, involves two
   Russian companies and the Institute for Internet Development, an
   industry association a former Kremlin official leads. All have close
   ties with the presidential administration of Russia’s leader, Vladimir
   V. Putin.

   The companies — the Social Design Agency, a public relations company,
   and Structura National Technologies, an information technology firm,
   both in Moscow — have been identified as sources in disinformation
   campaigns.

   Since July, the companies and their executives have faced punitive
   economic sanctions in the European Union for their involvement in
   disinformation around the war in Ukraine. That includes the creation of
   a news outlet, Recent Reliable News, which produced fake articles
   purporting to be from actual news organizations, including The
   Washington Post, and promoted them extensively online.

   In the current campaign, according to the State Department, the Russian
   companies intend to commission articles through a network of local
   writers and to use artificial intelligence chatbots to amplify the
   articles on social media. The effort aims to cultivate media contacts
   in countries from Mexico to Chile.

   “We expect them to carry out this information manipulation campaign to
   surreptitiously exploit the openness of Latin America’s media and
   information ecosystem,” said Mr. Rubin, who took over the Global
   Engagement Center this year.

   The Kremlin devotes significant resources to propagate its views on the
   war in Ukraine and to denigrate the United States and NATO, using both
   overt and covert means. American intelligence officials recently warned
   of a concerted Russian effort inside the United States to undermine
   political support for providing weapons to the Ukrainian military.

   The Institute for Internet Development, a Russian organization led by
   Aleksei Goreslavsky, who previously oversaw internet policy at the
   Kremlin, has indicated that it planned to spend the equivalent of $32
   million this year on information efforts surrounding the war, according
   to two other State Department officials, who under department policy
   spoke on the condition of anonymity.

   Those officials said the new campaign was intended to “launder” Russian
   news and opinion through contacts already writing in Spanish, as well
   as in Portuguese, for online news organizations in the region.

   It was not clear how extensive the campaign would be, but the targeting
   of so many countries suggested an ambitious one. The officials cited
   Pressenza and the article in August, which appeared in Spanish, French
   and English, as an example of the coordination that American government
   agencies had identified.

   The author, according to the byline, was Nadia Schwarz, identified as a
   correspondent in the outlet’s Moscow bureau.

   It echoed accusations first aired a month earlier in Russian state news
   agencies — and have since been rebutted — that Ukraine planned to
   remove relics and other valuables from the Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra, a
   complex of churches and other buildings dating to the 11th century and
   recognized as a world heritage site by UNESCO.

   Image
   Metropolitan Epiphanius, Primate of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine,
   leads the Christmas liturgy service at the Holy Dormition Cathedral of
   the Kyiv-Pechersk Lavra in January.Credit...Brendan Hoffman for The New
   York Times

   “The West is trying to make up, in part, for what it has spent in
   Ukraine,” a prominent analyst, Rostislav Ishchenko, is quoted in the
   article as saying. Mr. Ishchenko, who faces sanctions in Ukraine,
   compared the situation to the long dispute between Peru and Yale
   University over artifacts taken from Machu Picchu at the beginning of
   the 20th Century.

   The officials also cited a journalist, Oleg Yasinksy, who is based in
   Chile and whose writings have appeared on the website RT en Español,
   the Spanish-language arm of the state television network. Mr. Yasinsky
   could not immediately be reached for comment through his account on X.

   Pressenza, which is in Quito, Ecuador, and describes itself as an
   outlet committed to peace, human rights and nonviolence, did not
   respond to a written request for comment, nor did the Social Design
   Agency.

   Valeriya Paksyalina, a spokeswoman for the Institute for Internet
   Development, said that the organization’s charter required it to
   support content published in Russia for Russian audiences. “So we have
   no idea about any campaigns in Pressenza or any other outlet,” she
   wrote in an email.

   Brian Liston, an analyst who studies Russia for Recorded Future, a
   cybersecurity company headquartered in Somerville, Mass., said in an
   interview that Russia saw information campaigns in Central and South
   America as a proportionate response to what it sees as American
   influence efforts in Eastern Europe and the Baltics.

   He said it remained to be seen how effective the State Department’s
   effort to “prebunk” Russian propaganda would prove to be. Disputing
   false or misleading information in advance, he added, has worked well
   against specific events that can be anticipated or forecast.

   “There are certain applications, I think, in which debunking the
   narrative is effective,” he said. “I think it’s more limited to
   anticipating preplanned events or things that are able to be spun up
   versus in real time.”

   Steven Lee Myers covers misinformation for The Times. He has worked in
   Washington, Moscow, Baghdad and Beijing, where he contributed to the
   articles that won the Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2021. He is
   also the author of “The New Tsar: The Rise and Reign of Vladimir
   Putin.” More about Steven Lee Myers
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 10 of
   the New York edition with the headline: New U.S. Strategy Against
   Russian Propaganda Is to Expose It Early On. Order Reprints | Today’s
   Paper | Subscribe
   106

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
