   and a Game Clip

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Middle East


   Today’s Paper

Israel-Hamas War


   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
   You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your
   access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will
   load.

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

False Claims Around Israel Attacks Include Recycled Videos and a Game Clip

   Graphic imagery and footage have flooded social media since Hamas
   terrorists attacked Israelis. Bogus claims are also circulating and
   risk obscuring real evidence of atrocities.

   By Angelo Fichera, Roni Rabin and Arijeta Lajka
   Oct. 12, 2023

   In the days since Hamas attacked Israel, killing more than 1,200 people
   in sweeping assaults on kibbutzim, a music festival, towns and other
   places, violent images and graphic videos have flooded social media.

   So too have false and misleading information, old and unrelated videos
   and photos with inaccurate claims, and fabricated assertions about the
   involvement of countries like the United States and Ukraine — adding
   confusion and deception to an already chaotic moment.

   The false information circulating online risks clouding real evidence
   of atrocities that is emerging as Israeli soldiers retake control of
   places that were attacked: videos and photos, corroborated by witness
   accounts, that show that Palestinian gunmen attacked and killed Israeli
   civilians in large numbers. Soldiers and emergency workers are still
   recovering the dead, including children, in many communities.

   Here’s a look at some of the inaccurate material circulating online.

A paragliding accident in South Korea, not Israel

   Image
   isable=upscale]

   While Hamas members on paragliders crossed into Israel from Gaza, users
   on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter, shared an unrelated,
   months-old video of a paragliding accident in South Korea. The video
   captures a paraglider who got caught on a power line, which then
   sparked a fire.

   “A Palestinian terrorist attempting to enter Israel by air, getting
   stuck on an electrical wire, and frying!” one person falsely claimed on
   Wednesday.

   We are having trouble retrieving the article content.

   Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings.

   We are confirming your access to this article, this will take just a
   moment. However, if you are using Reader mode please log in, subscribe,
   or exit Reader mode since we are unable to verify access in that state.

   Confirming article access.

   If you are a subscriber, please log in.

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
