   2CHamas%2CGaza%2CMiddle+East+and+north+Africa%2CPalestinian+territories
   %2CWorld+news%2CX%2CMedia%2CTechnology%2CIsrael-Hamas+war] Skip to main
   contentSkip to navigationSkip to navigation

   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]

   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian

   ShowMoreShow More
       google-search
       Search










   Elon Musk
   Musk quit a voluntary code of practice set up by the EU earlier this
   year to enable social media companies to put in place systems to comply
   with the new laws. Photograph: Michel Euler/AP
   Musk quit a voluntary code of practice set up by the EU earlier this
   year to enable social media companies to put in place systems to comply
   with the new laws. Photograph: Michel Euler/AP
   Elon Musk
   This article is more than 1 month old

EU warns Elon Musk over ‘disinformation’ on X about Hamas attack

   This article is more than 1 month old

   Failing to moderate content such as fake news could incur fine of 6% of
   X revenues or EU blackout under new laws


   Lisa O'Carroll in Brussels
   @lisaocarroll
   Wed 11 Oct 2023 00.14 CESTFirst published on Tue 10 Oct 2023 21.33 CEST

   The EU has issued a warning to Elon Musk over the alleged
   disinformation about the Hamas attack on Israel, including fake news
   and “repurposed old images”, on X, which was formerly known as Twitter.

   The letter arrives less than two months after sweeping new laws
   regulating content on social media seen in the EU came into force under
   the Digital Services Act.

   If Musk, the owner of X, does not comply he can face a fine of 6% of
   his revenues from X or a total blackout in the EU.

   Thierry Breton, the commissioner responsible for the act, wrote to Musk
   to urge him to ensure “a prompt, accurate, and complete response” to
   the request to contact Europol, the EU police enforcement agency, and
   “relevant law enforcement agencies” within the next 24 hours.

   Breton reminded Musk that he needed to have “proportionate and
   effective mitigation measures to tackle the risks to public security
   and civic discourse stemming from disinformation”.

   IFRAME:
   https://embed.documentcloud.org/documents/24025072-european-commissions
   -letter-to-elon-musk/?embed=1

   Download original document

   “Following the terrorist attacks carried out by Hamas against Israel,
   we have indications your platform is being used to disseminate illegal
   content and disinformation in the EU,” wrote Breton.

   “Public media and civil society organisations widely report instances
   of fake and manipulated images and facts circulating on your platform
   in the EU, such as repurposed old images of unrelated armed conflicts
   or military footage that actually originated from video games. This
   appears to be manifestly false or misleading information,” he said.

   “Let me remind you that the Digital Services Act sets very precise
   obligations regarding content moderation,” Breton said, adding that
   changes in X’s public interest policies raised questions about his
   compliance to the new rules.

   Musk quit a voluntary code of practice set up by the EU earlier this
   year to enable social media companies to put in place systems to comply
   with the new laws. Facebook, Google, TikTok and other companies are
   participating in the code of practice and are removing disinformation
   under the new rules.

   He responded to Breton on X saying: “Please list the violations you
   allude to on X, so that the public can see them.”

   In a reference to the law’s requirement that platforms regulate their
   own content under the new laws Breton replied: “Up to you to
   demonstrate that you walk the talk.”

   Breton’s strongly worded letter told Musk: “First, you need to be very
   transparent and clear on what content is permitted under your terms and
   consistently and diligently enforce your own policies. This is
   particularly relevant when it comes to violent and terrorist content
   that appears to circulate on your platform. Your latest changes in
   public interest policies that occurred over night left many European
   users uncertain.

   “Second, when you receive notices of illegal content in the EU, you
   must be timely, diligent and objective in taking action and removing
   the relevant content when warranted. We have, from qualified sources,
   reports about potentially illegal content circulating on your service
   despite flags from relevant authorities.”

   Under the new laws social media companies must respond to complaints
   about illegal content within 24 hours. They can dispute complaints by
   users, but there is an appeal process for consumers.

   There are concerns in Brussels that Twitter is not responding within 24
   hours to complaints about disinformation or other illegal content such
   as hate speech within the required time.

   Breton asked Musk to “urgently ensure that your systems are effective”
   and to report back immediately to the EU over the crisis measures he
   has taken.

   “Given the urgency, I also expect you to be in contact with the
   relevant law enforcement authorities and Europol, and ensure that you
   respond promptly to their requests,” Breton added.

   In its briefings to press on the Digital Services Act, the EU has
   explained that those who are not participating in the voluntary code of
   practice will not be eligible to argue “mitigating” factors if it comes
   to punitive measures taken in Brussels.

   Breton told Musk: “We will include your answer in our assessment file
   on your compliance with the DSA. I remind you that following the
   opening of a potential investigation and a finding of non-compliance,
   penalties can be imposed.”

   X came under scrutiny in the past few days after concerns were raised
   about fake posts and Elon Musk’s recommendation of war coverage from
   accounts that have made false claims or antisemitic comments.

   Musk recommended two accounts on Sunday, writing: “For following the
   war in real-time, @WarMonitors and @sentdefender are good. It is also
   worth following direct sources on the ground. Please add interesting
   options in the replies below.”
   Explore more on these topics


   Reuse this content

More on this story


More on this story


Elon Musk to file ‘thermonuclear lawsuit’ as advertisers desert X
       4d ago

Elon Musk unveils Grok, an AI chatbot with a ‘rebellious streak’
       5 Nov 2023

‘It’s not clear we can control it’: what they said at the Bletchley Park AI
summit
       1 Nov 2023

Backlash after Elon Musk labels Scottish first minister Humza Yousaf racist
       27 Oct 2023

Musk ditches X’s election integrity team ahead of key votes around world
       28 Sept 2023

Elon Musk hits out at Soros foundation before meeting Israel’s Netanyahu
       18 Sept 2023

Eight things we learned from the Elon Musk biography
       12 Sept 2023

Rudy Giuliani ‘mob scene’ turned Elon Musk off seeking advice, new book says
       12 Sept 2023

Elon Musk likes to think he saved us from Armageddon. He’s just brought it
closer
       17 Sept 2023

Elon Musk’s X sues California over new social media transparency laws
       8 Sept 2023

Most viewed

Most viewed



   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian
   every morning
   Sign up for our email



   Back to top
   rights reserved. (dcr)
