   Order

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Media


   Today’s Paper

   Media|Disinformation Researchers Fret About Fallout From Judge’s Order
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/05/business/media/disinformation-resear
   chers-judge-restrictions.html

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
   You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your
   access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will
   load.

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Disinformation Researchers Fret About Fallout From Judge’s Order

   They said a restriction on government interaction with social media
   companies could impede efforts to curb false claims about vaccines and
   voter fraud.

   An audience in an auditorium listens to Barack Obama speak from behind
   a lectern on a stage.
   A federal judge’s decision specifically named some research
   organizations, including the Stanford Internet Observatory. Former
   President Barack Obama spoke about disinformation at Stanford last
   year.Credit...Jim Wilson/The New York Times
   Tiffany Hsu Stuart A. Thompson

   By Tiffany Hsu and Stuart A. Thompson
   July 5, 2023

   A federal judge’s decision this week to restrict the government’s
   communication with social media platforms could have broad side
   effects, according to researchers and groups that combat hate speech,
   online abuse and disinformation: It could further hamper efforts to
   curb harmful content.

   Alice E. Marwick, a researcher at the University of North Carolina at
   Chapel Hill, was one of several disinformation experts who said on
   Wednesday that the ruling could impede work meant to keep false claims
   about vaccines and voter fraud from spreading.

   The order, she said, followed other efforts, largely from Republicans,
   that are “part of an organized campaign pushing back on the idea of
   disinformation as a whole.”

   Judge Terry A. Doughty granted a preliminary injunction on Tuesday,
   saying the Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal
   Bureau of Investigation, along with other parts of the government, must
   stop corresponding with social media companies for “the purpose of
   urging, encouraging, pressuring or inducing in any manner the removal,
   deletion, suppression or reduction of content containing protected free
   speech.”

   We are having trouble retrieving the article content.

   Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings.

   We are confirming your access to this article, this will take just a
   moment. However, if you are using Reader mode please log in, subscribe,
   or exit Reader mode since we are unable to verify access in that state.

   Confirming article access.

   If you are a subscriber, please log in.

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
