

   News


   Finance


     News

     Markets

     Sectors

     Screeners

     Personal finance

     Videos


     Finance Plus


     Crypto

     Industries

   Sports



     Daily Fantasy

     NFL


     MLB


     NBA


     NHL


     Soccer


     College football


     Show all


   Entertainment


   Life



     Parenting


     Style and beauty


     Horoscopes

     Shopping


     Black Friday deals

     Cyber Monday deals

   About our ads Advertising Careers

   Yahoo News

   Search query ____________________
   (Search)

               o Today's news
               o US
               o Politics
               o World
               o COVID-19
               o Climate change
               o Health
               o Science
               o Elections
               o Originals
               o Health
               o Parenting
               o Style and beauty
               o Horoscopes
               o Shopping
               o Black Friday deals
               o Cyber Monday deals
               o Food
               o Travel
               o Celebrity
               o TV
               o Movies
               o Music
               o How to Watch
               o Interviews
               o Videos
               o Shopping
               o My portfolio
               o Watchlists
               o Markets
               o News
               o Videos
               o Yahoo Finance Plus
               o Screeners
               o Personal finance
               o Crypto
               o Industries
               o Fantasy
               o NFL
               o NBA
               o MLB
               o NHL
               o College football
               o College basketball
               o Soccer
               o MMA
               o Yahoo Sports AM

   Mail
   Sign in

   Advertisement

   Close this content
   The Conversation en Español The Conversation en Español

Disinformation is part and parcel of social media's business model, new
research shows

   Carlos Diaz Ruiz, Assistant Professor, Hanken School of Economics
   November 23, 2023 at 9:14 AM·4 min read
   <a
   href="https://www.shutterstock.com/es/image-photo/two-cute-beautiful-yo
   ung-women-friends-295469396" rel="nofollow noopener" target="_blank"
   data-ylk="slk:fizkes/Shutterstock;elm:context_link;itc:0" class="link
   fizkes/Shutterstock

   Deceptive online content is big business. The digital advertising
   market is now worth €625 billion, and their business model is simple:
   more clicks, views or engagement means more money from advertisers.
   Incendiary, shocking content – whether it is true or not – is an easy
   way to get our attention, which means advertisers can end up funding
   fake news and hate speech.

   This is not an accident – social media platforms know they profit from
   the spread of disinformation, while advertisers turn a blind eye.

   Disinformation aims to confuse, paralyse and polarise society at large
   for political, military, or commercial purposes through orchestrated
   campaigns to strategically spread deceptive or manipulative media
   content. On social media, disinformation tools include bots, deep
   fakes, fake news and conspiracy theories.

   Up to now, most disinformation research has focused on how the system
   is abused by national interests and authoritarian leaders. My research
   shows that disinformation is, in fact, a likely and predictable outcome
   of this market system instead of an unforeseen consequence.

A business model that rewards engagement

   Social media platforms were not designed to convey information, but
   rather for entertainment. They were designed to identify things like
   the most amusing cat videos, and then recommend them to people who
   would share them. However, marketing researchers have since found that
   content that evokes strong positive emotions like awe, or negative
   emotions like anger and anxiety, is more likely to go viral. Platforms
   have taken note of this and built it into their business models.

   The business model of social media works as follows. Platforms provide
   us with free “infotainment” (information and entertainment), and do
   everything in their power to keep us engaged. While we consume the
   content, the platform harvests our data, which is then processed into
   predictive analytics – the information that is used to target adverts.
   Advertisers pay for these analytics to power their targeted advertising
   campaigns.

   There is a financial incentive for most platforms to maximise online
   engagement, which means that any content, factual or not, that receives
   clicks, likes and comments is highly valued. Influencers who share
   incendiary, controversial content can become wealthy as a result, often
   leading others to replicate their style. Therefore, it is unsurprising
   that many creators publish confrontational, simplistic and emotionally
   charged content with us-against-them narratives.

   Stoking social anxieties and fuelling tribalism is also how conspiracy
   theories circulate.

   Leer más: I watched hundreds of flat-Earth videos to learn how
   conspiracy theories spread – and what it could mean for fighting
   disinformation

Digital marketing and disinformation

   Digital marketing is a commercial practice by which firms create value
   over the internet. It includes search optimisation, content marketing,
   influencers, pay-per-click adverts, affiliate programs, and ordinary
   advertising. Brands hire digital marketing agencies and firms known as
   ad tech, which operate the software that makes adverts follow us around
   the internet.

   ad tech firms operate without accountability or oversight, so when a
   brand pays an ad tech firm to place their ads, they also outsource
   their responsibility. A brand might therefore unknowingly end up
   funding disinformation about major global events like the
   Russia-Ukraine war and the Israel-Palestine war. Even after being
   presented with evidence, brands remain silent.

   Influencers play an especially important role in this cutthroat digital
   market. Driven by the promise of advertising money they seek engagement
   at any cost, even going as far as promoting content that undermines
   democratic institutions. If an influencer has to be demonetised or
   banned for publishing hate speech it makes no difference to the
   platform, because the platforms get to keep the advertising revenue.

Democratic governance of digital platforms

   Most brands do not want to be associated with hate speech and bot
   farms, but they are. It is easy to look the other way in such a
   technically complicated market, but marketers have a responsibility.
   Brands become complicit by remaining silent.

   Policymakers and activists are pushing to reform digital platforms to
   counter disinformation. Most efforts focus on content moderation and
   fact checking, but little attention is being paid to reforming the
   digital advertising market.

   Platforms and ad tech firms must work to reform a market that profits
   from disinformation, though it appears they are often unwilling or
   unable to lead the way.

   Brand managers can use their budgets to hold platforms accountable,
   especially if they act in large numbers, as demonstrated by the recent
   X (formerly known as Twitter) ad boycott following Elon Musk’s
   antisemitic remarks. If all else fails, policymakers must step in to
   ensure that the profits of these tech giants do not come at the cost of
   our democracy.

   Recommended Stories

X lawsuit accuses Media Matters of running a campaign to drive advertisers
away

       X has filed a lawsuit against media watchdog group Media Matters
       over the latter's research that showed ads on the social network
       appearing next to antisemitic content.
       4d ago

Apple, Disney, Comcast among X advertisers pausing spending after Musk
endorsed antisemitic post

       After X owner Elon Musk amplified antisemitic conspiracy theories
       on the platform, numerous high-profile advertisers have paused
       their spending on the platform formerly known as Twitter. Per
       research from the Center for Countering Digital Hate, X has failed
       to moderate hate speech on its platform that promotes antisemitic
       conspiracies, praises Hitler and dehumanizes Muslims and
       Palestinians. In a particularly egregious incident last week, Musk
       replied, "You have said the actual truth" to a post that echoed the
       same violent antisemitic conspiracy theory that was espoused by the
       killer from the 2018 Tree of Life synagogue attack.
       5d ago

Elon Musk's X could lose $75 million in ad revenue following antisemitic
content backlash

       More than 100 brands have pulled their ads from X, according to The
       New York Times.
       2h ago

The fate of US venture capital in China teeters on uncertainty

       On a weekday afternoon at Red Rock Coffee, the cafe known for
       spotting venture capitalists in Silicon Valley, one is likely to
       overhear a few conversations in Mandarin. Since China reopened its
       border this spring after three years of COVID-19 restrictions,
       managers of U.S. funds in the country have been flocking to the Bay
       Area. USD-denominated funds in China have long been drawing
       inspiration from Silicon Valley startups, using them as benchmarks
       for investment targets back home.
       47m ago

Need a gift for the person who has it all? MasterClass' Black Friday deal
gives two memberships for the price of one

       Take classes taught by experts and celebrities at the top of their
       field.
       5h ago

No. 7 Texas blasts Texas Tech 57-7 to clinch spot in Big 12 title game

       Texas’ time in the Big 12 is not over just yet.
       6h ago

Black Friday 2023 beauty deals: Ulta, Sephora and Amazon have the goods

       Experts share the beauty deals they're hunting right now — with
       faves from Dyson, CosRx, Skinceuticals, Tatcha, First Aid Beauty,
       MAC...
       6h ago

Top 10 Target Black Friday finds: Savings on must-have items right now

       Kick off your holiday shopping with a Ninja blender for 50% off, a
       Shark steam mop at a $50 discount, Apple AirPods for $60 off and so
       much more.
       6h ago

The Stanley Black Friday sale is on — plus, get the scoop on the new
holiday-themed version of the viral Quencher Tumbler

       Tons of mugs, pitchers and travel cups are majorly marked down.
       7h ago

These 23 Black Friday deals will save you up to $120 a year on the best
digital subscriptions

       The best subscription deals for Black Friday extend to streaming
       services, fitness and learning platforms and media site.
       12h ago

Xbox Black Friday deal: Save $50 on the Xbox Series X console and get a $50
Amazon credit

       Microsoft’s Xbox Series X has received a rare discount for Black
       Friday. Until the end of the weekend, Amazon is selling the 1TB
       model for $449, or $50 off MSRP.
       11h ago

No. 9 Missouri positions itself for New Year's 6 bowl with big win over
Arkansas

       The Tigers are 10-2 and should go to their first NY6 game in school
       history.
       10h ago

Jets are wasting another season with a bad offense, lose 4th straight vs.
Dolphins

       Not surprisingly, Tim Boyle didn't turn around the Jets offense.
       11h ago

College football scores, results: Oregon, Texas take care of business in
rivalry games

       It's rivalry week, and we didn't have to wait until Saturday to see
       crucial matchups with conference title implications.
       10h ago

Amazon Black Friday deals: Get a $10 gift card when you buy the Samsung
Galaxy Buds 2 Pro

       Thanks to a 33 percent discount, the Samsung Galaxy Buds 2 Pro are
       $160 at the moment.
       10h ago

25 Black Friday deals under $25 worth scooping up now

       Oprah-approved slippers for $23 (50% off), a Coach wallet for over
       70% off and a $16 Fire Stick Lite (it's over 50% off) — we can't
       get enough of these deals.
       13h ago

'Why I have no Botox': Salma Hayek's go-to ingredient for ageless skin is in
this $9 cream

       The bark of the 'Mexican skin tree' is known for its regenerative
       properties.
       12h ago

Oprah’s favorite towels and sheets are on Black Friday sale — save 35% with
our exclusive code

       Save on everything (including six of Oprah's Favorite Things) at
       this haven for PJs, towels, 'the softest ever' sheets and 'silky'
       skin-care.
       11h ago

The best Black Friday deals on Ring cameras for 2023

       It wouldn't be an Amazon Black Friday sale if the company's own
       in-house brands didn't take part in the promotions.
       11h ago

Apple AirPods 2 just dipped to $90 for Black Friday

       The charging case gives you nearly a full day of listening
       pleasure. Save an unheard-of $90.
       12h ago

   Yahoo news


   Follow us on

   Download our app
   Download app from appStore Download app from googlePlay

   nformation-part-parcel-social-medias-081424371.html&c14=-1]
