
   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-N8MP7P

   analytics

Accessibility links


   please wait

Print Options:



   Link has been copied to clipboard

       U.S. News All About America Silicon Valley & Technology Immigration
       Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central
       Asia

Follow Us

   Languages
   site logo site logo
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next

   Fact Checks

China Boosts Anti-US Conspiracy Theory About Maui Fire

   September 21, 2023 10:19 AM

   U.S. President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden speak with Lahaina
   elders at Moku'ula following wildfires in Lahaina, Hawaii, on August
   21, 2023. (AFP/Mandel NGAN)
   U.S. President Joe Biden and first lady Jill Biden speak with Lahaina
   elders at Moku'ula following wildfires in Lahaina, Hawaii, on August
   21, 2023. (AFP/Mandel NGAN)

   Share


   China Boosts Anti-US Conspiracy Theory About Maui Fire

   share

   Mao Ning Mao Ning

Mao Ning

   Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson

   “To say they [Chinese press outlets and social media users] ‘made up or
   spread disinformation’ is completely unfounded. If anyone was ‘making
   up or spreading disinformation’, it would be The New York Times, not
   them.”
   Source: Chinese Foreign Ministry Press Conference September 18, 2023
   False

   After wildfires swept across Hawaii’s Maui in August killing at least
   97 people, multiple social media posts shared a conspiracy theory
   claiming the United States military started the fires in a weather
   weapon experiment.

   A large network of pro-China influencers was behind that disinformation
   campaign, The New York Times reported on September 11, citing reports
   by five different organizations.

   China's Foreign Ministry dismissed The New York Times report, with
   spokesperson Mao Ning claiming on September 18:

   “To say they [Chinese press outlets and social media users] ‘made up or
   spread disinformation’ is completely unfounded. If anyone was ‘making
   up or spreading disinformation’, it would be The New York Times, not
   them.”

   That is false.

   The New York Times article was based on investigations independently
   conducted by researchers from Microsoft, the Recorded Future
   cybersecurity company, the RAND Corporation think tank, NewsGuard
   (which rates news and information websites) and the University of
   Maryland.

   The researchers found that pro-China influencers, falsely citing the
   United Kingdom’s MI6 foreign intelligence service, orchestrated a
   disinformation campaign claiming the U.S. government started the Maui
   fires in a weather weapons experiment.

   One report, published by NewsGuard on September 11, shows that in
   August and September 2023, there were at least 85 social media and blog
   accounts spreading identical posts and videos claiming MI6 had revealed
   that the U.S. government had intentionally set the Hawaiian wildfire.

   Many of the accounts involved in the campaign shared the identical
   conspiracy theory: “This Hawaiian wildfire is just a ‘weather weapon’
   attack experiment conducted by the US military!”
   The researchers indicated the claim was repeated across 14 major
   platforms, including Facebook, X, YouTube, Medium, Reddit, Pinterest
   and Tripadvisor. Almost all of these platforms are banned in China.
   This photo provided by County of Maui shows fire and smoke filling the
   sky from wildfires on the intersection at Hokiokio Place and Lahaina
   Bypass in Maui, Hawaii on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. (Zeke Kalua/County of
   Maui via AP)
   This photo provided by County of Maui shows fire and smoke filling the
   sky from wildfires on the intersection at Hokiokio Place and Lahaina
   Bypass in Maui, Hawaii on Tuesday, Aug. 8, 2023. (Zeke Kalua/County of
   Maui via AP)

   Polygraph.info verified that this content started to appear on multiple
   Chinese websites on or around August 14. (Screenshots) Multiple
   bloggers on Baidu, a major blogging platform, shared similar messages
   claiming that MI6 had concluded the Maui fire was the result of a U.S.
   weather weapon experiment, not a natural disaster. The messages
   contained identical wording.
   Multiple bloggers in China spread identical posts and videos claiming
   MI6 had revealed the U.S. had intentionally set the Hawaiian wildfire.
   Multiple bloggers in China spread identical posts and videos claiming
   MI6 had revealed the U.S. had intentionally set the Hawaiian wildfire.

   Later, even mainstream Chinese media like Sohu.com put out a similar
   narrative.

   A Sohu article published on August 24 asserted that MI6 had
   successfully tracked down the Maui wildfire’s mastermind after “months
   of investigation." Yet that fire broke out on August 8, only 16 days
   before the Sohu article was published. So, how could MI6 have been
   investigating it for months?
   A Sohu article published on Aug 24 claimed MI6 had successfully tracked
   down the Maui wildfire’s mastermind after “months of investigation."
   A Sohu article published on Aug 24 claimed MI6 had successfully tracked
   down the Maui wildfire’s mastermind after “months of investigation."

   NewsGuard reported this newly-discovered network appeared to be
   targeting users in multiple countries, posting in 15 languages in
   addition to Chinese. The accounts also reposted and interacted with one
   another, ballooning the network‘s outreach.
   NewsGuard concluded there is “strong evidence” that Chinese speakers
   were behind the disinformation campaign, and that the first Chinese
   post spreading the claim was published at least two days before the
   first posts in other languages. Many of the accounts involved in the
   campaign only post narratives aligned with those of the Chinese
   government.

   At the time the Maui wildfire broke out, the Chinese government was
   facing anger and criticism from netizens accusing it of failing to
   respond adequately to flooding that brought death and destruction to
   areas surrounding the capital Beijing.

   This is not the first time China has orchestrated a disinformation
   campaign for political gain. Earlier in September, Polygraph.info
   identified a propaganda campaign involving pro-Beijing influencers on
   X, claiming the U.S. blockade against China’s tech giant Huawei had
   failed.
   In 2022, pro-China actors used X to discredit Safeguard Defenders, a
   non-governmental organization that published a report about China’s
   overseas police stations.
   In September, Microsoft reported that since 2022, China-aligned social
   media networks have engaged directly with authentic users on social
   media. They also are increasingly using AI-generated images in their
   social media campaigns to make them more believable.

   While the Maui wildfire is still under investigation, the reports
   indicate it was most likely caused by bare electrical wire and fallen
   power poles.

Polygraph.info
       Polygraph.info is a fact-checking website produced by Voice of
       America (VOA). ​The website serves as a resource for verifying the
       increasing volume of disinformation and misinformation being
       distributed and shared globally.
       FOLLOW Subscribe

   Back to top


   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
