   #alternate Russia Intensifies Its Propaganda Campaign Against Ukraine

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   (BUTTON) Search & Section Navigation
   (BUTTON) Section Navigation
   (BUTTON) SEARCH
   Politics


   Today’s Paper

Russia-Ukraine War

     * Photos
     * Maps
     * The War’s Invisible Battle
     * Recruiting Ukrainian Women
     * A Plan to Save Kherson

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Russia Intensifies Its Propaganda Campaign Against Ukraine

   A new push by the Kremlin frames the war as a counterterrorism
   operation and seeks to rally Russians to support the fight, officials
   and researchers say.
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)

   A priest blessed new military enlistees at a recruiting office in
   Moscow this month. By framing Ukraine as the potential nuclear
   aggressor, Russia can ratchet up tensions over escalating the war
   without incurring the wrath of its population or further undermining
   support for President Vladimir V. Putin.
   A priest blessed new military enlistees at a recruiting office in
   Moscow this month. By framing Ukraine as the potential nuclear
   aggressor, Russia can ratchet up tensions over escalating the war
   without incurring the wrath of its population or further undermining
   support for President Vladimir V. Putin.Credit...Nanna Heitmann for The
   New York Times
   Julian E. Barnes

   By Julian E. Barnes
   Oct. 26, 2022

   WASHINGTON — Since before the war, Russia has spread disinformation
   about its need to stamp out Nazism in Ukraine. But in recent days,
   Moscow’s propaganda has shifted, arguing that it is battling terrorism
   and falsely accusing Ukraine of planning a dirty bomb attack as part of
   that narrative.

   The new propaganda, spread on social media and in the news, also
   includes unsupported allegations that the Ukrainian government intends
   to destroy a dam in its own territory, according to European and
   American government officials and independent researchers.

   The push is meant to shore up Russian support for the war but also to
   denigrate Ukraine in the West, potentially softening support for more
   arms shipments to Kyiv, officials and researchers say.

   “They seem to have decided on a talking point that this is a
   counterterrorism operation now,” said Kyle Walter, who leads the U.S.
   investigation team at Logically, a tech start-up that helps governments
   and businesses counter disinformation. “Rather than framing this as
   something that’s anti-Nazi or anti-Satanist, you now have a concerted
   effort to frame it as a counterterrorism operation.”

   The counterterrorism narratives, according to American officials, are
   part of a wider propaganda web, all aimed at making Russians feel more
   involved in the war.

   The Kremlin, which has begun calling its fight in Ukraine the people’s
   war, is trying to convince its public that the conflict is not a war of
   choice for Moscow, but an existential fight to save the country.
   Russian officials have used the disinformation about dirty bomb attacks
   to highlight other attacks inside Russia by Ukraine, and stoke anger
   toward Ukraine with the Russian people, according to American and
   European officials.

   On Wednesday, President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia repeated the
   unfounded claim that Ukraine’s government was plotting a dirty bomb
   attack. The accusation came as Russia started its annual nuclear
   military exercises, but U.S. officials said those drills appeared
   routine and included all of the usual notifications.

   The information operations do not appear to have swayed public opinion
   in the West, but social media posts on the possibility of a dirty bomb
   attack have gained traction in Russia.

   FilterLabs, a firm that tracks public sentiment in Russia and
   elsewhere, noted a surge this week in discussions about nuclear
   terrorism by Ukraine. Russians have equated Ukraine’s plans with Osama
   bin Laden’s threats against the United States and say Washington should
   end its support of Ukraine.

   Russia’s claims that Ukraine is using terrorist tactics are not new;
   even narratives comparing Ukraine to bin Laden have been discussed in
   Russia since August. But the intensity of the discussions increased
   this week, said Jonathan Teubner, the chief executive of FilterLabs.

   “The sources of the narrative are mostly Kremlin-aligned sites,” Mr.
   Teubner said. “But it is being repeated by some independent outlets who
   are attempting to refute it.”

   Even before the Russian defense minister, Sergei K. Shoigu, made the
   dirty bomb accusation in public this weekend, the Russian news media
   had discussed the possibility that Ukraine could start a nuclear
   conflict.

   Image
   A woman outside the U.S. Embassy in Moscow this month held a poster
   that said “U.S., NATO. Hands off Ukraine.”Credit...Nanna Heitmann for
   The New York Times

   By framing Ukraine as the potential nuclear aggressor, Russia can
   ratchet up tensions without incurring the wrath of its population or
   further undermining support for Mr. Putin.

   Using disinformation and propaganda is an important part of Mr. Putin’s
   playbook. Before the invasion, Moscow began pushing a variety of false
   narratives about Ukraine. Researchers at Logically and other firms
   tracked an increase in accusations that Ukrainians were Nazis and were
   planning a genocide against Russian speakers in eastern Ukraine.

   U.S. officials said some of the accusations Russia leveled at Ukraine
   in social media before the war, such as that Kyiv was planning a
   chemical attack, were part of a ploy to create a false pretext for an
   invasion.

   Now, U.S. officials are divided over whether Russia actually believes
   Ukraine intends to conduct a terrorism campaign, including use of a
   dirty bomb, or if the propaganda push is purely an excuse to justify
   tougher action.

   Some American officials said that given other covert Ukrainian action,
   like the car bomb attack that killed the daughter of a prominent
   Russian ultranationalist and the strike against a bridge to Crimea,
   Russian officials have convinced themselves, potentially based on
   faulty intelligence, that Ukraine has a dirty bomb.

   And the Russian news media has spread disinformation about a dirty bomb
   attack while discussing actual Ukrainian actions, such as the bridge
   strike, the car bomb and attacks against arms depots in Crimea and
   Russia.

   “You can zero in on the dirty bombs specifically, but I think it
   represents a wider trend that’s pretty cohesive in recent weeks,” said
   Mr. Walter, the investigator at Logically. “Which is the idea that
   Russia is pushing that Ukraine is a terrorist state.”

   Julian E. Barnes is a national security reporter based in Washington,
   covering the intelligence agencies. Before joining The Times in 2018,
   he wrote about security matters for The Wall Street Journal. More about
   Julian E. Barnes
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 10 of
   the New York edition with the headline: Russian Propaganda Frames War
   as Against Terror. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe
     * (BUTTON) Share full article
     * (BUTTON)
     * (BUTTON)

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation

     * © 2023 The New York Times Company

     * NYTCo
     * Contact Us
     * Accessibility
     * Work with us
     * Advertise
     * T Brand Studio
     * Your Ad Choices
     * Privacy Policy
     * Terms of Service
     * Terms of Sale
     * Site Map
     * Canada
     * International
     * Help
     * Subscriptions

     * Manage Privacy Preferences

   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
