
   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-MJWQ5L2

Skip links

   Skip to Content

Live


Navigation menu


Live




   PodcastPodcast, The Take
   News|Israel-Palestine conflict

The Take: Censorship and disinformation – the online war on Gaza

   As Palestinians are censored and disinformation spreads rapidly, how is
   the internet steering the Gaza conflict?
   Women use social media to support Palestinian protests at the
   Israel-Gaza border, in Gaza City April 14, 2018. Picture taken April
   14, 2018
   Women use social media to support Palestinian protests at the
   Israel-Gaza border in 2018 [File: Samar Abo Elouf/Reuters]
   Published On 23 Oct 202323 Oct 2023

   IFRAME:
   https://omny.fm/shows/the-take/censorship-and-disinformation-the-online
   -war-on-ga/embed

   Social media have been one of the few available ways for Palestinians
   to tell their stories under the Israeli occupation and blockade. But
   censorship and account suspensions threaten that outlet. As the war on
   Gaza escalates, social media companies have tightened their grip
   further. This is mixed with the rapid spread of disinformation and
   conflicting narratives like those about the deadly blast at the al-Ahli
   Arab Hospital in Gaza. So how far is disinformation and censorship
   steering the conflict?

Keep reading

   list of 4 items

   list 1 of 4

The Take: The backlash to supporting Palestine

   list 2 of 4

The Take: Will the Gaza hospital attack be a turning point for the world?

   list 3 of 4

The Take: When it comes to Gaza, when is it called a war crime?

   list 4 of 4

The Take: The other blockade – As Gaza escalates, so does the West Bank

   end of list

   In this episode:
       East studies at Hamad bin Khalifa University

   You can watch Al Jazeera’s investigative report on the hospital blast
   in Gaza here.

   Episode credits:

   This episode was produced by Sarí el-Khalili and our host Malika Bilal.
   Miranda Lin fact-checked this episode.

   Our sound designer is Alex Roldan. Tim St Clair mixed this episode. Our
   lead of audience development and engagement is Aya Elmileik, and Adam
   Abou-Gad is our engagement producer.

   Alexandra Locke is The Take’s executive producer, and Ney Alvarez is Al
   Jazeera’s head of audio.

   Connect with us:

   @AJEPodcasts on Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, Threads and YouTube
   Source: Al Jazeera


   Follow Al Jazeera English:

   Al Jazeera Media Network logo
