   #MyNorthwest.com » Rantz: Seattle mayor silent as tax dollars used for
   anti-Semitic propaganda Comments Feed alternate alternate alternate

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-PV2JDR8

   Close
   MyNorthwest
     * Home
     * News
     * Sports
     * KIRO Opinion
     * KTTH Opinion
     * Traffic
     * Weather
     * Lifestyle
     * Podcasts
     * LIVE Radio
     * KIRO Newsradio 97.3 FM
     * Seattle Sports
     * 770 KTTH AM

   News
     * Local News
     * Northwest Weather
     * Northwest Traffic
     * Northwest History
     * National News
     * World News
     * Politics
     * Lifestyle
     * Money
     * Odd News
     * Photo Galleries
     * Sponsored Stories

   Opinion
     * Dave Ross
     * Gee and Ursula
     * Jack and Spike
     * John and Shari
     * KIRO Nights
     * Jason Rantz
     * Bryan Suits
     * Michael Medved
     * Feliks Banel
     * MyNorthwest Blog

   Sports
     * Sports
     * Seahawks
     * Mariners
     * Kraken
     * UW Huskies
     * Brock and Salk
     * Bump and Stacy
     * Wyman and Bob

   Tools
     * Search the Site
     * Earthquake Tracker
     * School Closings
     * Advertise With Us
     * Employment
     * Contest Rules

   Connect
     * Contact Us
     * Newsletters
     * Contests and Events
     * Community Outreach
     * Just Serve
     * Facebook
     * X (Twitter)
     * Instagram
     * KIRO on YouTube
     * KTTH on YouTube
     * RSS

   KTTH

   MYNORTHWEST
   SEATTLE SPORTS
   KIRO NEWSRADIO
   Get the app
   Connect
   Email
   Shows
   Podcasts
   Video
   Listen Live
   Menu

   KTTH OPINION

Rantz: Seattle mayor silent as tax dollars used for anti-Semitic propaganda

   Nov 26, 2023, 5:45 PM
   Weekend pro-Palestinian demonstrations, Seattle. Insert: Local activist
   Luna Reyna. (Photo: Jason R...

   Weekend pro-Palestinian demonstrations, Seattle. Insert: Local activist
   Luna Reyna. (Photo: Jason Rantz/Insert: Seattle Dept. of Neighborhoods)

   (Photo: Jason Rantz/Insert: Seattle Dept. of Neighborhoods)
   Share
   Jason Rantz's Profile Picture

   BY JASON RANTZ

   The Jason Rantz Show, 3pm-7pm on KTTH

   The city of Seattle is unabashedly funneling taxpayer dollars to
   support an anti-Semitic screed by local activist and Israel critic Luna
   Reyna. What’s as appalling is Mayor Bruce Harrell’s disturbing, but
   predictable, silence on the matter. He only reluctantly condemns
   anti-Semitism publicly — when it’s politically advantageous.

   With anti-Semitic incidents in Seattle on the rise, Harrell’s
   Department of Neighborhoods saw fit to enlist Reyna for a project
   supposedly aimed at honoring Native American Heritage Month. It became
   an exercise in anti-Semitism. Among her contributions is an essay “Land
   Back from Turtle Island to Palestine,” where she brazenly uses the
   “Land Back” movement to justify Hamas’s horrific terrorist attack on
   Israeli civilians this October 7th. Reyna describes the “Land Back”
   movement as “a literal reclamation of stolen land to its original
   stewards.”

   Reyna doubles down on her propaganda, accusing Israel of genocide and
   illegal occupation, effectively providing a disturbing justification
   for Hamas’s unconscionable violence against Jews, which included rape,
   kidnap, and murder. It’s a narrative that not only distorts reality but
   emboldens local hate mongers to continue their assaults on Jews, all
   under the guise of activism.

   Rantz: Jewish students targeted with swastikas, ‘gas the Jews’ chants

Historically ignorant analysis to justify terrorism

   Bereft of any historical or religious aptitude, Reyna argues that
   Palestinians are victims of Israel. She describes the only Jewish state
   as “a settler colonial state that has embraced erasing the people who
   inhabited the pre-colonized land through violent resource extraction,
   environmental desecration, displacement and genocide.”

   Her language is meant the parallel her observations of the United
   States and its treatment of Native Americans. It helps explain the
   supposed solidarity between Native Americans and the Palestinian
   people, a manipulative comparison meant to engender more local
   animosity towards Jews.

   To Reyna, Israel is “occupying” Palestinian land. She doesn’t believe
   Israel has the right to exist. She even goes as far as to claim 120,286
   Palestinians were “murdered by the Israeli government and settlers in
   just the last 15 years,” a reference to all deaths, including
   terrorists with Hamas and other violent criminals.

   Israeli Defense Forces killing an actual terrorist is a “murder” to
   Reyna.

   Rantz: Facebook is censoring anti-Hamas, pro-Israel commentary

Defending Hamas

   Reyna does not expressly condemn Hamas violence, merely saying “being
   in solidarity with Palestinians… does not equate to condoning” Hamas
   actions. But she does expressly justify Hamas terrorism in the very
   next several sentences.

   “Context is also important. Hamas was created after decades of violence
   by the occupying Israeli government. The cruelty, violence and
   bloodshed of Palestinian people by the Israeli government has been
   unconscionable for over 75 years. It’s this occupation, the tactics of
   a colonial military backed by world powers, and now the ongoing
   genocide of Palestinian people in Gaza, that many Native people connect
   with. There is a direct correlation with the tactics used by the
   occupying Israeli government and the U.S. government to the Indigenous
   people of what is now the United States.”

   In the context of the “occupation” and “oppression” of Gazans, Reyna
   concludes the Land Back movement “has begun to transform into a phrase
   used in solidarity with all people impacted by settler colonialism.”

Defending defending Hamas

   A spokesperson for the Seattle Department of Neighborhoods defended the
   posting in an email to the Jason Rantz Show on KTTH. Susie Philipsen
   said that the essay was part of the city’s work “to amplify the voices
   of the communities we serve, sharing diverse viewpoints of people who
   live here.”

   Philipsen claims the office doesn’t “direct, dictate, or censor article
   content.” This is not merely false, but in direct conflict with her
   full statement. Indeed, it reads like a parody.

   The content, supported by taxpayer dollars, was specifically directed
   to express “stories reflecting on their [contributors’] experiences as
   Indigenous people.” And it’s not censorship to reject content the
   government is paying for if it doesn’t meet agreed-upon standards. If,
   for example, the essay was about embracing white supremacy and the
   genocide of Native Americans, the city would have rejected it, not
   printed it.

   The spokesperson would not reveal how much taxpayer dollars Reyna was
   paid to contribute anti-Semitic propaganda for the city.

There’s more vicious content supported by taxpayers

   Reyna’s anti-Semitic screed isn’t the only offensive commentary hosted
   by the city and supported with tax dollars.

   Reyna gave activist and comedian Howie Echo-Hawk space to promote hate
   in a lazy video further explaining the Land Back movement. It was
   little more than complaining about white people.

   The video, posted to the city’s YouTube page and Department of
   Neighborhoods website, starts with Echo-Hawk declaring, “I’m a Native
   American person. We’re still alive, f*** you” before degenerating into
   an unhinged diatribe.

   Echo-Hawk demands “white people go back to Europe,” complains about
   Seattle’s “white people who are ruining my life every single day,” and
   explains that Israel stole its land from Palestinians. The
   self-proclaimed “indigequeer” jokes about being paid by the city to put
   little effort into the Land Back stand-up routine.

   IFRAME:
   https://www.facebook.com/plugins/video.php?height=314&href=https%3A%2F%
   2Fwww.facebook.com%2FJasonRantzShow%2Fvideos%2F298269449854622%2F&show_
   text=false&width=560&t=0


Mayor Harrell silent as usual

   The mayor’s office, in typical fashion, ducked out of commenting. This
   aligns perfectly with Harrell’s playbook: dodge questions his office
   fears might ruffle the feathers of the Progressive and Socialist
   activists in Seattle.

   Harrell’s approach to controversial issues? Do the absolute least.
   Publicly, he’ll throw a bone of condemnation against anti-Semitism, but
   only when it’s politically expedient. It’s why he waited so long to
   condemn the Hamas terrorist attack. Behind closed doors, his office
   offers a different tune. It’s meant to mollify Jewish groups and
   activists, staving off public backlash or pressure campaigns to weigh
   in. Harrell hopes not to weigh in, so his office doesn’t take positions
   when asked. Sadly, it’s a clever, if disingenuous, game of political
   maneuvering.

   Harrell’s office grants access to reporters who offer the mayor
   favorable coverage. And he knows he can ice out journalists covering
   controversial decisions he’s making. His silence can kill a story.
   Indeed, local media outlets will not cover this anti-Semitic essay,
   even though it shows Harrell’s previous belated statement against
   anti-Semitism to have been hollow. Some local reporters have done their
   best to defend the anti-Israel rallies calling for violence and the
   destruction of Israel. Though they’ve been caught several times, local
   reporters continue to carry water for Hamas and its supporters.

   One local activist, however, isn’t staying silent, joining a growing a
   chorus of local Jewish community members speaking out.

Speaking up, but don’t expect apology

   Randy Kessler, regional director for Stand With Us Northwest, believes
   the mayor cares about the Jewish community, but notes that he is aware
   of brazen anti-Semitism and threats being on the rise in Seattle.

   “Despite that, these posts demonstrated not just a lack of not just
   sensitivity, but of common sense. I cannot understand why anyone would
   consider these comments acceptable to publish on a city website,”
   Kessler said in a statement to the Jason Rantz Show on KTTH. “Isn’t the
   role of a city to improve the quality of life for all its residents?
   Howie Echo-Hawk’s words do nothing to help. They only hurt.”

   Kessler said the city “owes the city’s Jewish community not just an
   apology, but a commitment that harmful and divisive posts like these
   will not be seen again on city websites.”

   But the city doesn’t appear to find this essay problematic. The
   Department of Neighborhoods spokesperson notes that the essay is not
   intended to represent city beliefs, just those of the author. But she
   also argues it fits into the city’s theme of uniting Seattleites from
   different backgrounds.

   The spokesperson promised the department would “continue to use our
   platforms to uplift experiences of community members representing a
   wide array of backgrounds in order to build a welcoming community.” The
   only people uplifted by this essay and video are anti-Semites and their
   enablers.

   Pro-Palestinian protesters disrupt Seattle’s Tree Lighting Celebration

   Listen to The Jason Rantz Show on weekday afternoons from 3-7 p.m. on
   KTTH 770 AM (HD Radio 97.3 FM HD-Channel 3). Subscribe to the podcast.
   Follow him on X, formerly known as Twitter, Instagram, and Facebook.
   Check back frequently for more news and analysis.

   Follow @https://twitter.com/jasonrantz
   Share
   Jason Rantz on AM 770 KTTH
     * listen to jason rantz Tune in to AM 770 KTTH weekdays at 3-7pm
       toThe Jason Rantz Show.

Jason Rantz Show

   IFRAME:
   https://embed.audiocdn.com/?feed=aHR0cHM6Ly9mZWVkLmNkbnN0cmVhbTEuY29tL3
   pqYi9mZWVkL2Rvd25sb2FkLzBiLzQxL2Y4LzBiNDFmODAyLWY3MWQtNGY3MS1iNzIyLWIxM
   jI3NTc1ZGVhNS54bWw=&pbg=EFEFEF&lbg=F9F9F9&pt=353D58&st=676E85&bbg=FFFFF
   F&bi=353D58&limit=10

KTTH Opinion

   Image: Facebook's Meta logo sign can be seen at the company
   headquarters in Menlo Park, California,...

   Jason Rantz

Rantz: Facebook is censoring anti-Hamas, pro-Israel commentary

   It’s seemingly the latest effort in Big Tech to choose sides on
   political issues that seems designed to tip the scales in public
   opinion against Israel.

   7 days ago
   seattle holiday shopping...

   Frank Sumrall

Suits: ‘Bad sign for downtown’ as Seattle ranks as worst holiday shopping
city

   Seattle has the worst holiday shopping experience in the country,
   according to a new study that examined affordability and purchasing
   power.

   8 days ago
   auto shop break-in...

   Max Gross

Gross: Local auto shop forced to start over after break-in: ‘This is going to
keep happening’

   Burglars broke through a lock and window to access the building. They
   stole two vehicles; a customer's and one loaded with work equipment.

   9 days ago
   Seattle drug crisis...

   Jason Rantz

Rantz: Seattle will waste federal funds tackling drug crisis it created

   Harrell and others want the fund to tackle the fentanyl crisis. Much of
   the money, at least on paper, sounds like it would go to worthy causes.

   11 days ago
   Burien homelessness...

   Jason Rantz

Rantz: Burien voters rejected Seattle homelessness extremism and politicians

   Burien City Council's most radical member Cydney Moore failed in her
   re-election campaign to nonprofit consultant Linda Akey.

   12 days ago
   fortney snohomish county sheriff...

   Frank Sumrall

Fortney: ‘I shouldn’t have to defend that garbage’ dished by Sheriff-elect
Johnson

   Adam Fortney lost his re-election bid for Snohomish County Sheriff,
   losing to Susanna Johnson, a 30-year veteran within the department.

   13 days ago

Sponsored Articles

   West Coast Armory North Sponsored image...

As crime crisis worsens, locals get serious about personal safety

   Washington's crime crisis continues to worsen, and locals are turning
   to whatever tools they can use to keep them safe.
   WA OIC...

2024 Medicare open enrollment: Here’s how to get free unbiased help

   Medicare’s annual open enrollment period runs Oct. 15 through Dec. 7.
   This is the time to review your current Medicare coverage.
   Swedish Cyberknife...

Diagnosed with Prostate Cancer? What are my options?

   September is a busy month on the sports calendar and also holds a very
   special designation: Prostate Cancer Awareness Month.
   Ziply Fiber...

   Dan Miller

The truth about Gigs, Gs and other internet marketing jargon

   If you’re confused by internet technologies and marketing jargon,
   you’re not alone. Here's how you can make an informed decision.
   Education families...

Education that meets the needs of students, families

   Washington Virtual Academies (WAVA) is a program of Omak School
   District that is a full-time online public school for students in
   grades K-12.
   Emergency preparedness...

Emergency planning for the worst-case scenario

   What would you do if you woke up in the middle of the night and heard
   an intruder in your kitchen? West Coast Armory North can help.
   Close
   Rantz: Seattle mayor silent as tax dollars used for anti-Semitic
   propaganda
   Facebook
   < path id="pathAttribute" d="M 8.917969 7.773438 L 367.417969 7.773438
   L 367.417969 366.273438 L 8.917969 366.273438 Z M 8.917969 7.773438 "
   />
   Twitter
   LinkedIn
   Email Story

   KTTH
   Seattle, Washington, USA
     * Contact Us
     * Follow on Facebook
     * Follow on Twitter
     * Email Alerts
     * Advertise With Us
     * Employment

   Part of the MyNorthwest.com Network of Sites
   © 2023 Bonneville International. All rights reserved. Terms of Use |
   Privacy Policy | Do Not Sell My Data
   EEO Public File Report | Copyright Infringement | Licensing
   FCC Applications | FCC Public File: KIRO-FM | KIRO-AM | KTTH | FCC
   STATION REPRESENTATIVE: Sheri Blatman - SBLATMAN@BONNEVILLE.COM
   206.726.7000
