   Hollywood Reporter » News Feed The Hollywood Reporter » Politics News
   Feed

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-WF5RW4B



   Skip to main content

   Got a tip?
   The Hollywood Reporter homepage
   Newsletters
   Subscribe

The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News

   Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter
   See My Options Sign Up

site categories


   The Hollywood Reporter homepage

   Read Next:

The Best Black Friday Deals on Hulu, Paramount+, Prime Video and More
Streaming Services

   Subscribe

The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News

   Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter
   See My Options Sign Up


“Everyone Wants Us to Pick a Side”: Reporters Grapple With Covering
Israel-Hamas War

   An inside look at how correspondents are juggling online harassment
   even as they dodge the dangers of real-time reporting in the escalating
   conflict.

   By Brian Stelter
   Plus Icon

Brian Stelter

More Stories by Brian

   View All
   October 25, 2023 6:45am

   Israel-Hamas War
   Illustration by Lincoln Agnew

   Clarissa Ward was about to begin a top-of-the-hour CNN live shot in
   Sderot, Israel, when a Red Alert siren started to blare. The alert is
   “telling us to find shelter,” Ward said, as her crew hurried toward a
   bomb shelter. They didn’t make it in time. As Hamas rockets whizzed
   overhead and Israel’s Iron Dome intercepted some, creating explosions
   in the sky, Ward and her colleagues ducked in a ditch. The
   pulse-pounding scene showed that, as Ward said on air, “even with the
   most sophisticated military technology, the Israelis are still up
   against a really tough fight.”

   The world’s biggest news outlets, now in 24/7 war coverage mode, are up
   against a parallel fight against disinformation and defamation.
   Reporters say they have never seen it this bad. Ward’s compelling
   Oct. 9 live shot, which should have been a point of pride, prompted
   weeks of pain. Videos of her report were met with hateful comments
   calling her an actress. “She deserves an Oscar.” “Next time write a
   better script.” Then a click-hungry YouTube creator added an audio
   track of a faux director giving Ward stage instructions, and the
   fabricated video went viral on apps like Telegram and Elon Musk’s X,
   with titles like “CNN Busted FAKING Attack in Israel.” Musk reacted
   with a laughing-crying emoji, delighting his fans, and prodding one
   lone editor at Condé Nast to reply and say what I felt: “None of this
   is funny,” legal affairs editor Luke Zaleski wrote. “It’s tragic. X is
   a high-speed information-blender puréeing facts and news and minds into
   mush during major world events. And the effect is massive confusion
   with potentially disastrous results.”

Related Stories

   Sacha Baron Cohen, Debra Messing, Amy Schumer
   General News

Sacha Baron Cohen Slams TikTok: "Creating Biggest Antisemitic Movement Since
the Nazis"

   BBC headquarters
   TV

BBC Apologizes for Falsely Reporting Israeli Army Targets "Medical Teams" in
Gaza

   The past two weeks have proven Zaleski right. Confusion is the
   unfortunate byproduct of the collision between social networks and
   newsrooms. CNN publicists urged people to watch Ward’s real report “for
   themselves on a trusted platform” — meaning, not Musk’s X — and the
   meme-maker said he wasn’t trying to deceive anyone, but Ward, the
   network’s chief international correspondent, was deluged by trolls
   anyway. “My reporting has been spliced and diced, twisted and faked,”
   Ward wrote on an Instagram Story post for friends. She later turned off
   comments altogether because, she wrote, there were “one too many
   threats to kill my children and I just don’t think it helps anyone.
   Really desperate to keep the focus on the immense suffering and
   bloodshed” and the need for aid in Gaza.

   That’s how other correspondents feel, as well. “This is the absolute
   most emotionally charged story to cover,” one exasperated reporter said
   in a late night conversation. “Everyone wants us to pick a side,”
   another said. “No,” a third reporter chimed in, “everyone already
   thinks we’re on a side. They don’t believe that impartial news is
   possible.”

   In conversations with two dozen staffers at outlets like The New York
   Times, ABC and Al Jazeera, some of whom are working in the war zone, I
   heard about four overwhelming and overlapping challenges: dangerous
   conditions, factual disputes, distortions and disinformation.

   Physical dangers are paramount: Press freedom groups say that two dozen
   members of the media have died amid the fighting, mostly Palestinians.
   Mohammed Mhawish, a journalist in Gaza City, told me he harbors no
   illusions that his flak jacket labeled PRESS will provide any real
   protection from Israeli air strikes. Several of the Gazan producers who
   work for Western networks are actively trying to evacuate their
   families. At the same time, as a correspondent in Israel said, “We’re
   desperate to get into Gaza, but it’s impossible.” Reporters can hear
   blasts in the distance but can’t see the effects for themselves.

   The result: a shortage of facts. When a powerful explosion occurred
   near Al-Ahli Hospital in Gaza City on Oct. 17, and Hamas-aligned
   spokespeople immediately blamed an Israeli air strike, many outlets
   blasted out news alerts before it was possible to have any independent
   sourcing or reporting. Israeli officials were furious, and so were some
   journalists in the offending newsrooms. “We claim to care deeply about
   disinformation, but we’re part of the problem,” one Times staffer said
   to me, a point echoed by several others.

   Information is scarcest when public interest is greatest and the
   inverse is also, sadly, true; by the time The Wall Street Journal, The
   Associated Press and other outlets produced in-depth assessments
   pointing to a misfired rocket from Gaza as the most likely cause of the
   hospital blast, minds were made up. Masthead editors at the Times
   grappled for several days with both external criticism and internal
   concerns about the initial “Israeli Strike Kills Hundreds in Hospital,
   Palestinians Say” headline, which was updated multiple times as new
   information arrived. An editor’s note on Monday said, “Times editors
   should have taken more care with the initial presentation, and been
   more explicit about what information could be verified.” (The cause of
   the hospital blast is still under investigation.)

   To the extent that the Times deserves blame for the early error, it
   also deserves credit for the note of contrition. Factual disputes will
   continue for as long as the war does. “This is a test for executives,”
   one network source observed, as the conflict prioritizes execs with
   international expertise and veteran staffers who have the standing to
   say “Wait” before publishing. (“Wait” may be the single hardest word to
   say in a newsroom, but that’s why it is also the most important.) CNN
   Worldwide chairman and CEO Mark Thompson officially started his new job
   on the third day of the war, but he spent the entire weekend beforehand
   on calls and email threads about editorial coverage and security
   posture; so far, he is receiving high marks from staffers.

   Attention is now turning to long-term planning, which means rotating
   journalists in and out of the region. “We all need to pace ourselves
   and take care of ourselves and each other,” CBS News president Ingrid
   Ciprian-Matthews wrote in a memo, pointing out that “no one is spared
   the pain of watching so much death and destruction — whether in person
   or over video.”

   During the 2003 invasion of Iraq, reports from news crews embedded with
   U.S. military units were likened to a “soda-straw” view of war. We’re
   now each holding whole handfuls of straws, yet unable to trust what
   we’re seeing. The number of violent videos from Israel and Gaza is
   almost limitless, capturing every conceivable angle — snuff films from
   the body-worn cameras of Hamas terrorists, silent films from Israeli
   aircraft showing bombs hitting Gaza targets, TikToks from civilians in
   the crossfire, drone videos of the aftermath. Some of the videos are
   deceptive while others, wrongly purporting to be from the war zone, are
   outright disinformation. This is why media literacy lessons should be
   woven into news coverage, so that consumers know what steps are being
   taken to vet information ahead of time. MSNBC showed how to do this by
   booking Eric Carvin, the director of NBC News’ Social Newsgathering
   team, for an explainer segment on Oct. 21.

   Of course, no amount of transparency will appease the critics who are
   certain that the press is their enemy. Ward went viral again last week
   when Egyptian protester Rahma Zein confronted her at the Rafah Crossing
   between Egypt and Gaza. “You own the narrative,” she shouted. “Where
   are our voices?” Ward interviewed her and used Zein’s voice in a CNN
   report, but the thoughtful, edited package was no match for the shaky
   cellphone clips of Zein’s roar. What viewers didn’t see was that Zein
   began by invoking the made-up meme from Sderot: “You are the actress!”

   This story first appeared in the Oct. 25 issue of The Hollywood
   Reporter magazine. Click here to subscribe.

Read More About:


THR Newsletters

   Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
   Subscribe Sign Up

More from The Hollywood Reporter

   Rambling Reporter

Jason Sudeikis Thanked Taylor Swift for Touring in Kansas City and Endorses
Relationship With Travis Kelce: “He’s a Good Egg”
   MasterClass

Improv Made Amy Poehler More “Resilient,” Now She’s Teaching a MasterClass
   The Rolling Stones

The Rolling Stones Announce 16-City U.S. Tour
   music

Sleigh, Queen: Mariah Carey and Her Twins Bring Christmas Cheer to L.A. for
Sold-Out Shows
   Shakira

Shakira Settles Spanish Tax Fraud Case
   SNL

Dana Carvey “Taking a Break From Work” in Wake of Son Dex Dying

Shopping With THR

   Best Black Friday Deals on Streaming Services 2023

The Best Black Friday Deals on Hulu, Paramount+, Prime Video and More
Streaming Services

   By Danielle Directo-Meston
   Best AWOL VISION LTV-2500 UST Triple Laser Projector Deal on Amazon

One of the Best 4K Projector TVs Is On Sale for Its Lowest Price Ever at
Amazon for Black Friday

   By Danielle Directo-Meston
   Parachute Home Bedding and Mattress

Parachute’s Beloved Bedding, Linens and Accessories Are 20 Percent Off for
Black Friday

   By Danielle Directo-Meston
   Best Beauty Black Friday Deals

The Best Black Friday Beauty Deals at Sephora, Ulta, Nordstrom and More
(Updating)

   By Danielle Directo-Meston

THR Newsletters

   Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day
   Email Address ____________________
   By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our
   Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information
   to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA
   Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Most Popular

   John Amos with (from left) son K.C., first wife Noni, daughter Shannon
   and goddaughter Amy Goudy in 1972

John Amos and a Family at War With Itself

   By Gary Baum
   Melissa Barrera

Melissa Barrera Dropped From ‘Scream VII’ After Social Media Posts Amid
Israel-Hamas War

   By Aaron Couch
   film slate being clapped

STRIKE OVER: Actors Make a Deal With Studios After 118 Days

   By Katie Kilkenny
   Road Runner, Wile E. Coyote

Warner Bros. Reverses Course on ‘Coyote vs. Acme’ After Filmmakers Rebel

   By Aaron Couch, James Hibberd
   Iman Vellani, Brie Larson and Teyonah Parris in 'The Marvels.

Marvel Studios Taking Stock of Strategy Amid ‘The Marvels’ Meltdown

   By Pamela McClintock

Must Reads

   From left New Regency’s Sam Hanson, Kindred Spirit founder Anita Gou,
   CAA’s Adam Friedman, A24 exec Zach Vargas-Sullivan and UTA agent
   Houston Costa. Executives throughout were photographed Oct. 30 and
   Nov. 3 at PMC Studios in L.A.

Next Gen 2023: The Hollywood Reporter’s 35 Rising Executives 35 and Under

   By Aaron Couch, Ashley Cullins, Mia Galuppo, Borys Kit, Mikey
   O'Connell, Lacey Rose
   Illustration of Man

How TMZ Became Hollywood’s Grim Reaper

   By Gary Baum, Ryan Gajewski, Winston Cho
   Olivia Rodrigo, Billie Eilish, Jon Batiste, Dua Lipa, Cynthia Erivo and
   Julia Michaels

The Hit Squad: Billie Eilish, Olivia Rodrigo and Dua Lipa on the THR
Songwriter Roundtable

   By Dominoe Ibarra
   THR cover 32 low res - songwriter roundtable 2023

The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News

   Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter
   SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up



   PMC Logo

Most Popular

Old FBI Files Claim Donald Trump's Second Wife Marla Maples Allegedly Had an
Affair With This '90s Singer

Snoop Dogg Clarifies "Giving Up Smoke" Statement, Reveals New "Smokeless"
Solo Stove Collab

The Unearthed Remains of 19th-Century London Workhouse Suggest a Different
Reality Than Charles Dickens Depicted

Jackson State Mum on Diddy's Donation in Wake of Sex Suit

You may also like

The Receipts: Britton Schey, The Reluctant Yogi

   1 week ago

This Pizza Oven Is the Black Friday Deal You’ll Want to Jump on

   2 hours ago

Ludacris Says New Music Projects Will Be “Coming Out Next Year”

   10 hours ago

‘Celebration of Taylor Swift’: Jason Mraz Enjoys Perfect Night on ‘DWTS’

   5 hours ago

   THR cover 32 low res - songwriter roundtable 2023

Subscriber Support


The Hollywood Reporter


Legal


Follow Us


Newsletter Sign Up

   Sign Up ____________________
   By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our
   Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information
   to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA
   Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

Have a Tip?

   Send us a tip using our anonymous form.
   Send Us a Tip Sign Up

   Icon Link Plus Icon
   The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2023
   The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
   THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood
   Reporter, LLC.
   Powered by WordPress.com VIP

Our Sites


   The Hollywood Reporter homepage

Follow Us


Alerts & Newsletters

   Your Email ____________________
   By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our
   Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information
   to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA
   Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

optional screen reader


   Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media
   Corporation. © 2023 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved.
   THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood
   Reporter, LLC.

   ad

   Quantcast
