

   Copyright © 2023, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy
   | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal
   Information



   Focus mode (Focus mode)

   Advertisement

   Politics

Supreme Court will decide Biden-GOP clash over social media and COVID
disinformation

   Light illuminates part of the Supreme Court building at dusk
   The Supreme Court building in Washington.
   (Patrick Semansky / Associated Press)
   By David G. SavageStaff Writer
   Oct. 20, 2023 2:11 PM PT


   WASHINGTON —

   The Supreme Court agreed Friday to hear a second major case on social
   media and will decide whether the Biden White House violated the 1st
   Amendment when it urged platforms to take down “misinformation and
   disinformation” about COVID-19.

   Three conservatives dissented and said the court should have kept in
   place a judge’s order that barred administration officials from
   contacting social media sites.

   “Government censorship of private speech is antithetical to our
   democratic form of government,” Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., joined by
   Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil M. Gorsuch wrote, calling the court’s
   move to rule on the issue “highly disturbing.”

   The justices now have before them two contrasting views of how the 1st
   Amendment’s right to free speech applies to social media, both of which
   were endorsed by conservative judges from the 5th Circuit Court of
   Appeals in New Orleans.

   The first view holds that a state (in this instance, Texas) does not
   violate the 1st Amendment if it imposes heavy fines on privately run
   social media sites for allegedly discriminating against conservative
   viewpoints.
   Advertisement

   The second view is that federal officials violated the 1st Amendment
   when they “significantly encouraged” social media sites to remove
   disinformation.

   The common element in both cases is that Republican officials in Texas,
   Louisiana and Missouri as well as the 5th Circuit judges believe
   conservative viewpoints are being unfairly suppressed on social media.

   Last month, the justices agreed to hear a free-speech challenge to a
   Texas law that authorized the state to regulate popular social media
   sites like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. NetChoice, a coalition of
   tech groups, contended the law violated the free-speech rights of the
   social media sites, but the 5th Circuit upheld the law on the theory
   that the state was seeking to combat “censorship.” The high court had
   blocked the law from taking effect by a 5-4 vote.

   The new case did not arise from complaints by social media sites but
   instead from a suit brought by Republican state attorneys general from
   Missouri and Louisiana. They said federal officials, including the
   surgeon general and the FBI, had conspired to “censor disfavored
   speech” by “significantly encouraging social media platforms” to remove
   some postings.

   They took their complaint to U.S. District Judge Terry Doughty, a Trump
   appointee in Monroe, La., who handed down an unusually far-reaching
   order on the Fourth of July that prohibited dozens of federal officials
   and agencies from “urging or encouraging” the removal of “protected
   speech” from social media. He described the administration’s conduct as
   “arguably … the most massive attack against free speech in United
   States’ history.”

   The Biden administration appealed to the 5th Circuit, but in early
   September, a different panel of three judges upheld most of the judge’s
   ruling.
   Advertisement

   They said administration “officials have engaged in a broad pressure
   campaign designed to coerce social-media companies into suppressing
   speakers, viewpoints, and content disfavored by the government. The
   harms that radiate from such conduct extend far .... It impacts every
   social-media user.”

   The injunction says the White House and “their employees and agents,
   shall take no actions, formal or informal, directly or indirectly, to
   coerce or significantly encourage social-media companies to remove,
   delete, suppress, or reduce, including through altering their
   algorithms, posted social-media content containing protected free
   speech.”

   U.S. Solicitor General Elizabeth B. Prelogar, representing the
   government, filed an emergency appeal asking the Supreme Court to block
   the judge’s order and to rule on the constitutional dispute.

   She said the case “concerns an unprecedented injunction installing the
   U.S. District Court for the Western District of Louisiana as the
   superintendent of the Executive Branch’s communications with and about
   social-media platforms — including senior White House officials’ speech
   addressing some of the most salient public issues of the day.”

   She said the district and appellate judges in Louisiana “did not
   identify any threat, implicit or explicit, of adverse consequences” if
   a social media site refused to remove certain content. Even so, they
   “entered a sweeping preliminary injunction governing thousands of
   federal officials’ and employees’ speech concerning any content posted
   on any social-media platform by anyone,” she said.

   She argued the states had no standing to sue, and White House officials
   were free to speak out against the spread of falsehoods about COVID
   vaccines or the 2020 election. “It is undisputed that the
   content-moderation decisions at issue in this case were made by private
   social-media companies, such as Facebook and YouTube,” she said in
   Murthy vs. Missouri.

   The complaints from the Republican state attorneys general were not
   limited to COVID-19. In their response to the appeal, they told the
   court that “the FBI orchestrated a deceptive campaign to induce
   platforms to censor the New York Post’s October 14, 2020 story about
   Hunter Biden’s laptop, just before the 2020 election.” In early 2021,
   when President Biden moved into the White House, “federal censorship
   activities escalated dramatically,” they added.

   Jeff Landry, the Louisiana attorney general who filed the original
   suit, won election last week as the state’s governor.
   PoliticsWorld & Nation
   David G. Savage

   Follow Us

   David G. Savage has covered the Supreme Court and legal issues for the
   Los Angeles Times in the Washington bureau since 1986.

More From the Los Angeles Times

       Thanksgiving turkey, Liberty, during a pardoning ceremony at the
       White House in Washington, Monday, Nov. 20, 2023. (AP Photo/Susan
       Walsh)
       Opinion

Abcarian: President Biden just celebrated his birthday. So should voters.
       Nov. 22, 2023
       in Sacramento, Calif., Wednesday, Jan. 12, 2022. (AP Photo/Rich
       Pedroncelli)
       California

California Assembly: Who’s in and who’s out for the most powerful posts
       Nov. 21, 2023
       carrying bottles of drinking water sent by the United Nations
       Children's Fund (UNICEF) as the civilians experience water and food
       shortages due to Israeli attacks in Khan Yunis, Gaza on November
       21, 2023. (Photo by Abed Zagout/Anadolu via Getty Images)
       World & Nation

Israel, Hamas agree to temporary cease-fire to free 50 hostages
       Nov. 21, 2023
       historic nature of this election," Kamala Harris said.
       California

Biden-Harris reelection campaign ramps up political fundraising in Hollywood
       Nov. 21, 2023

Subscribers Are Reading

       For Subscribers

SoCal’s most overlooked holiday escape is a place you’ve probably driven past
       For Subscribers

How to score an instant rebate on a new or used electric car in California
       For Subscribers

Droves of Californians are moving to Texas. Here’s the life they are finding

Aspiring actor, homeless in L.A., was fatally shot by CHP officer on 105
Freeway

What can you build on L.A.’s steep, narrow lots? How about this surprisingly
roomy home

   Advertisement

Latest Politics


Calmes: This Thanksgiving, let Trump’s “best people” do the arguing with your
MAGA uncle
       Nov. 21, 2023

Why Kamala Harris prefers Gen Z to millennials, and why it matters
       Nov. 21, 2023

Newsom responded quickly, and very publicly, to L.A. freeway fire but still
faces scrutiny
       Nov. 21, 2023

Column: A failed recall heralds a new era for Latino politics in Orange
County
       Nov. 21, 2023

Litman: Trump called the latest 14th Amendment ruling a ‘victory.’ He
couldn’t be more wrong
       Nov. 20, 2023

   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   Advertisement
   Advertisement

   Advertisement

   A California Times publication

   Subscribe for unlimited access
   Site Map

   Follow Us


   Copyright © 2023, Los Angeles Times | Terms of Service | Privacy Policy
   | CA Notice of Collection | Do Not Sell or Share My Personal
   Information
