   %2CAustralian+media%2CAustralia+news%2CFreedom+of+speech%2CSocial+media
   %2CDigital+media] Skip to main contentSkip to navigationSkip to
   navigation

   Print subscriptions
   Sign in
   Search jobs
   Search
   Europe edition [ ]

   The Guardian - Back to homeThe Guardian

   ShowMoreShow More
       google-search
       Search










   Michelle Rowland speaking at a lectern
   Communications minister Michelle Rowland wants Acma to have ‘new
   information-gathering and record-keeping powers’ to monitor digital
   platforms efforts to fight disinformation. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP
   Communications minister Michelle Rowland wants Acma to have ‘new
   information-gathering and record-keeping powers’ to monitor digital
   platforms efforts to fight disinformation. Photograph: Lukas Coch/AAP
   Australian politics
   Explainer

Why is Labor’s bill on combatting disinformation so controversial?

   Coalition is ringing alarm bells about legislation, despite it
   containing many Morrison-era proposals. But they’re not alone in their
   concerns
       podcast


   Amy Remeikis
   @amyremeikis
   Sun 1 Oct 2023 01.00 CESTLast modified on Sun 1 Oct 2023 03.32 CEST

   It’s been designed to combat misinformation and disinformation on
   digital platforms, but the Combatting Misinformation and Disinformation
   bill exposure draft has unleashed a flurry of controversy, and its fair
   share of misinformation.

   So what are the facts around this legislation and will it end freedom
   of speech in Australia?

What is the bill?

   The government is seeking to amend the Broadcasting Services Act 1992,
   by proposing to give the Australian Communications and Media Authority
   more powers over digital platforms when dealing with “content [that] is
   false, misleading or deceptive, and where the provision of that content
   on the service is reasonably likely to cause or contribute to serious
   harm”.

   The communications minister, Michelle Rowland, said: “Acma will be
   given new information-gathering and record-keeping powers to create
   transparency around efforts by digital platforms to respond to
   misinformation and disinformation on their services, while balancing
   the right to freedom of expression so fundamental to democracy.”
   ‘Trumpian era’ of disinformation makes voice yes campaign job more
   difficult, Megan Davis says
   Read more

   Under the proposal, Acma would be given the powers to register an
   enforceable industry code if the platform’s self-regulation measures
   “prove insufficient in addressing the threat posed by misinformation
   and disinformation”.

   Importantly, the bill does not give Acma any “take down” powers. It
   cannot order the removal of a post. Instead, if concerns are raised, it
   can ask the platform about its self-regulatory processes, and only if
   they are deemed insufficient can next steps be taken, including
   potential penalties and the enforcement of a mandatory code of conduct.
   The legislation sets out the next steps as graduated increases of power
   – Acma must give the platform every opportunity to respond to concerns
   before moving on to penalties.

How did we get here?

   In 2017, the then treasurer, Scott Morrison, ordered the ACCC to
   conduct a review of digital platforms, with a focus on the “impact of
   digital platforms on the supply of news and journalistic content and
   the implications of this for media content creators, advertisers and
   consumers”. In its final report in 2019, the ACCC recommended a
   “digital platforms code to address the risk of deliberately misleading
   and harmful news” including “appropriate responses” to address
   disinformation and “mal-information”.

   A voluntary code of conduct was drawn up by some of the major platforms
   in response and adopted by Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Twitter,
   TikTok, Redbubble, Apple and Adobe in 2021. Acma was given the job of
   keeping an eye on how the platforms upheld the code. That same year,
   the watchdog reported to the Morrison government its concerns over the
   rise of disinformation and misinformation online and recommended
   beefing up the code.
   Indigenous voice – video
   00:02:19
   Dreyfus says Dutton ‘leader of the misinformation campaign’ on
   Indigenous voice – video

   In March 2022, just before the federal election, the Morrison
   government responded to Acma’s report and promised to boost the
   regulator’s powers.

   The Coalition went to the election vowing to give Acma “new regulatory
   powers to hold big tech companies to account for harmful content on
   their platforms”. That included providing Acma with “reserve powers to
   register and enforce industry codes or make industry standards”.

   In June, after the election, Labor said it was looking at digital
   platforms. In January 2023, Rowland announced plans to do much of what
   the Coalition had planned in regards to beefing up the regulator’s
   powers.
       newsletters for your daily news roundup

   An exposure draft of the proposed legislation was released in June
   2023, which included many of the same elements the Coalition had taken
   to the election. By July, Sky News commentator Peta Credlin had
   declared it an “assault” on freedom of speech, which would establish a
   “ministry of truth”. Clare Chandler, a Liberal senator labelled it a
   “threat to democracy”. One Nation and other rightwing identities began
   to campaign against the legislation on the grounds it would “cancel”
   freedom of speech.
   Is Labor cooking up a ‘ministry of truth?’ No, it’s just an opposition
   scare campaign – with a side of hypocrisy | Paul Karp
   Read more

   In August, the Australian Christian Lobby claimed the bill would lead
   to the cancellation of “Christian posts” and announced it would
   campaign against the legislation. Later that month, the shadow
   communications minister, David Coleman, said the bill should “be torn
   up” and would “suppress legitimate free speech in Australia”, despite
   the Coalition once promising the same legislation.

Is it only conservatives?

   No. While there have been many responses to the consultation process
   after campaigns by One Nation and former Nationals MP George
   Christensen, there have also been concerns raised by the Human Rights
   Commission and the Australian Law Council.

   Those concerns are largely centred around what they say are the broad
   definitions of disinformation and misinformation in the bill.

   Content could be considered misinformation if it’s “false, misleading
   or deceptive” and the provision of the content “is reasonably likely to
   cause or contribute to serious harm”. Disinformation includes a similar
   definition but with the added clause of addressing whether the person
   content intends that the content deceive another person”.
   Politics with Amy Remeikis – video
   00:05:11
   Voice claims fact check with three weeks until the referendum: Politics
   with Amy Remeikis – video

   There are exemptions, including if the content is considered
   entertainment, parody or satire, is from a professional news
   organisation, is produced for an educational institution or has been
   approved by commonwealth or state governments.
   skip past newsletter promotion

   Sign up to Afternoon Update
   Free daily newsletter

   Our Australian afternoon update breaks down the key stories of the day,
   telling you what’s happening and why it matters
   Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online
   ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see
   our Privacy Policy. We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and
   the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.

   after newsletter promotion

   The Media, Entertainment and Arts Alliance also has concerns over the
   broadness of the definition of “serious harm”, with the exposure
   draft’s stating that for harm to be considered serious “it must have
   severe and wide reaching impacts on Australians”. The union also wants
   further clarity over who would be considered a “professional”
   journalist in terms of the exemptions, given that freelancers can work
   for themselves.

   We don’t know what the final definitions of “misinformation” or
   “disinformation” will be.

   The University of Technology Sydney submitted to the inquiry that it
   believed some of the concerns to be “overblown” but accepted there was
   legitimate concern about the enlarged role for Acma.

   It proposed “limiting Acma’s information gathering powers to ‘measures
   implemented to prevent or respond’ to mis- and disinformation … thereby
   removing any possibility that Acma could indirectly influence decisions
   on which forms of content comprise mis- and disinformation”.

Is it the end of the world?

   The exposure draft as it stands is unlikely to be the same bill that is
   introduced to parliament, with Rowland indicating she is serious about
   consultation.

   The bill cannot force a social media platform or user to take down
   content – in Australia, only the e-Safety commissioner has those
   powers, thanks to legislation passed by the Coalition government in
   2021.

   Existing content moderation has not affected freedom of speech – Acma
   has noted that platforms like Facebook have removed thousands of posts
   under the existing voluntary code.
   better', ANU professor says – video
   00:01:48
   Referendum misinformation 'propagated by those who should know better',
   ANU professor says – video

   This bill creates a dialogue where, if an issue arises, Acma can
   converse with the platforms about meeting their own self-imposed code
   of conduct and, if necessary, recommend that voluntary code be
   strengthened with the threat of the government enforcing a code of
   conduct as an last resort.

   Angela Flannery, the deputy chair of the Law Council’s media and
   communications law committee, said many critics of the bill failed to
   distinguish between “freedom of speech and the right to have voices
   amplified by platforms”.

   The Coalition’s 2022 election platform included a promise to create
   “stronger laws to combat harmful disinformation and misinformation
   online by giving the media regulator stronger information-gathering and
   enforcement powers”. It now calls the legislation seeking to do that an
   “absolute disgrace”.

   Coleman told Sky News the existing Online Safety Act could be used in
   some instances, but that only deals with bullying and harassment
   online, not misinformation.

What is next?

   Rowland has said she plans on introducing legislation by the end of the
   year, but there is no suggestion it will be passed this year.

   With the Coalition voting no, the government will need to negotiate
   with the Greens and crossbench in the Senate to have the bill passed.
   The Greens senator Sarah Hanson-Young has said she wants to see an even
   stronger bill that would include news organisations. Lower house
   independent MPs Zali Steggall and Zoe Daniel have also questioned the
   blanket exemption.

   But no decisions will be made until the final legislation is tabled.
   The passage of the bill is not expected to be fast, giving plenty of
   time for further consultation.
   Explore more on these topics


   Reuse this content

Most viewed

Most viewed



   Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian
   every morning
   Sign up for our email



   Back to top
   rights reserved. (dcr)
