   IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on



   Search

   Profile

   Sections

   tv

   Featured

   More From NBC

   Follow NBC News


news Alerts

   There are no new alerts at this time
   Search

   War in Ukraine

Russian disinformation, propaganda ramp up as conflict in Ukraine grows

   Disinformation experts say they have already seen a concerted effort to
   push a false narrative around the reasons for invading Ukraine — and
   that more is on the way.
   Image: fragments of military equipment in Kharkiv, Ukraine
   Fragments of military equipment in Kharkiv after an apparent Russian
   strike in Ukraine on Thursday. Andrew Marienko / AP

   Feb. 24, 2022, 4:36 PM UTC / Updated Feb. 26, 2022, 3:06 PM UTC
   By Jason Abbruzzese

   Russia’s effort to spread disinformation and propaganda across the
   internet and through foreign and domestic media about its invasion of
   Ukraine started weeks ago — and it’s expected to ramp up now that the
   conflict has begun.

   Disinformation experts say that they have seen a concerted effort from
   Russian leaders and state-backed media to push a false narrative around
   the reasons for invading Ukraine, and that they expect that to continue
   as both international pressure and even some domestic Russian
   resistance to war grows.

   “We’re going to see a huge onslaught,” said Jane Lytvynenko, senior
   research fellow at Harvard University’s Shorenstein Center on Media,
   Politics and Public Policy. “And we need to be prepared for that.”

   Lytvynenko said people should be prepared for a wide variety of
   disinformation and propaganda, including the use of authentic images
   and video to push false narratives.

   “We know that propaganda is a part of every war, and we know that after
   every attack we see a flood of propaganda,” she said. “This propaganda
   can take many forms. It can try to take videos out of context and claim
   for them to be something else. It can show Russian attacks as more
   powerful than they actually were.

   “They can create the illusion that Ukraine is not fighting back when it
   is. It will also play on gaps in knowledge on Western audiences in
   particular who have not been paying attention to a war that has been
   going on for eight years.”

   Videos and images have already begun to pour out of Ukraine, many
   showing destroyed military vehicles and explosions. And during a
   conflict, disinformation and propaganda can also be a tool used by all
   sides. Some media that is circulating has been found to be recycled
   from other conflicts, including one post from a verified Ukrainian
   military Facebook page that posted what purported to be Ukrainian
   military action but appeared to be footage from a conflict in Syria in
   2020.

   Another misappropriated video, which showed a soldier parachuting out
   of an airplane, drew almost 20 million views on TikTok. The video is
   from a training exercise and was first posted online in April 2016.

   Andy Carvin, senior fellow and managing editor of the Atlantic
   Council's Digital Forensic Research Lab, said news consumers need to be
   cautious in terms of drawing conclusions from unverified media coming
   out of Ukraine. He noted that it's easy for even well-meaning people to
   make mistakes and get details wrong that can easily spread quickly
   through social media.

   "I feel like we’re seeing a lot of stuff that has truth to it but is
   often coming in the wrong context," he said. "As people share footage,
   often the location can change from one city to another or the date gets
   mixed up or the description misinterprets what’s going on."

   Disinformation often conjures memories of the 2016 U.S. presidential
   election, when Russian bots pushed misleading and politically divisive
   claims on social media. But that will not necessarily be the playbook
   for the conflict with Ukraine, according to Ben Strickland, director of
   investigations at the Centre for Information Resilience, a nonprofit
   organization based in London that actively monitors disinformation
   campaigns.

   Strickland said he’s seen a shift in recent days away from Russian
   propaganda that sought to blame Western democracies and NATO for
   causing tensions and toward justifying an invasion of Ukraine. That has
   included disinformation and false accusations about fascists and
   neo-Nazis in Ukraine.

   “From about Feb. 14 onward we started to see the use of the term
   ‘Ukraine aggression,’” Strickland said. “This was specific keywords on
   Ukrainian aggression and a narrative echoed across all platforms, all
   Russian state-backed media outlets.”

   IFRAME: //iframe.nbcnews.com/HVz4d8n?_showcaption=true&app=1

   Strickland said that most of the disinformation his organization has
   tracked has not been pushed by the kinds of bot-driven social media
   operations that many think of in relation to Russian propaganda
   campaigns, but has instead been mostly focused on disseminating
   information on so-called false flag attacks (fake events meant to
   manipulate narratives) that have then been amplified by Russian media.

   He said he’s on alert for more staged events or Russian efforts to
   claim that any war crimes or atrocities were done by Ukrainians.

   “I think what we are scared of is a much larger event whether it be
   children being killed, whether it be chemical weapons being employed
   and mass casualties and then seeing that used as ‘Ukrainians are the
   terrorists,’” he said.

   Stickland noted that these kinds of disinformation efforts are
   primarily meant to shore up support for military conflict within
   Russia, pointing specifically to the state-backed media outlet RT.

   “You see this echoed in local news by RT, and that’s where the thread
   is really tied to garner the support of the population of Russia,” he
   said.

   Lytvynenko said it’s crucial for people to get information from people
   who understand the region and the conflict.

   “When looking at information about these latest attacks, it’s important
   to understand that context. Go follow reporters who are on the ground.
   Follow Ukrainians who are in direct contact with people there, and
   follow official statements from official channels,” she said. “It seems
   like very basic advice, but it’s really important now.”

   Carvin also said people in search of information should look to
   journalists and civil society organizations, and meet any information
   from Russian media and officials with a healthy skepticism.

   "In any conflict there is a fog of war that affects everyone who has
   access to communication sources," he said. "And nowadays, that means
   all of us."
   Jason Abbruzzese

   Jason Abbruzzese is the senior editor for technology, science and
   climate for NBC News Digital.
   Ben Collins contributed.
