   IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on



   Search

   Profile

   Sections

   tv

   Featured

   More From NBC

   Follow NBC News


news Alerts

   There are no new alerts at this time
   Search

   Israel-Hamas war

E.U. demands Meta and TikTok detail efforts to curb disinformation from
Israel-Hamas war

   Under the E.U.’s new rules, the biggest tech companies face extra
   obligations to stop a wide variety of illegal content from flourishing
   on their platforms or face the threat of hefty fines.
   Israeli soldiers patrol near the Gaza Stripin kibbutz Kfar Aza, Israel
   Israeli soldiers patrol in kibbutz Kfar Aza in Israel near the Gaza
   Strip on Wednesday. Jack Guez / AFP - Getty Images

   Oct. 19, 2023, 1:53 PM UTC / Source: The Associated Press
   By The Associated Press

   The European Union ratcheted up its scrutiny of Big Tech companies on
   Thursday with demands for Meta and TikTok to detail their efforts to
   curb illegal content and disinformation during the Israel-Hamas war.

   The European Commission, the 27-nation bloc’s executive branch,
   formally requested that the social media companies provide information
   on how they’re complying with sweeping new digital rules aimed at
   cleaning up online platforms.

   The commission asked Meta and TikTok to explain the measures they have
   taken to reduce the risk of spreading and amplifying terrorist and
   violent content, hate speech and disinformation.

   Under the E.U.’s new rules, which took effect in August, the biggest
   tech companies face extra obligations to stop a wide range of illegal
   content from flourishing on their platforms or face the threat of hefty
   fines.

   The new rules, known as the Digital Services Act, are being put to the
   test by the Israel-Hamas war. Photos and videos have flooded social
   media of the carnage alongside posts from users pushing false claims
   and misrepresenting videos from other events.

   Brussels issued its first formal request under the DSA last week to
   Elon Musk’s social media platform X, formerly known as Twitter.

   European Commissioner Thierry Breton, the bloc’s digital enforcer, had
   previously sent warning letters to the three platforms, as well as
   YouTube, highlighting the risks that the war poses.

   “In our exchanges with the platforms, we have specifically asked them
   to prepare for the risk of live broadcasts of executions by Hamas — an
   imminent risk from which we must protect our citizens — and we are
   seeking assurances that the platforms are well prepared for such
   possibilities,” Breton said in a speech Wednesday.

   Meta, which owns Facebook and Instagram, and video-sharing app TikTok
   didn’t respond immediately to email requests for comment.

   The companies have until Wednesday to respond to questions related to
   their crisis response. They also face a second deadline of Nov. 8 for
   responses on protecting election integrity and, in TikTok’s case, child
   safety.

   Depending on their responses, Brussels could decide to open formal
   proceedings against Meta or TikTok and impose fines for “incorrect,
   incomplete, or misleading information,” the commission said.
   The Associated Press
