
   Skip to contentSkip to site index


   Today’s Paper

   Opinion|Disinformation Is Not the Real Problem With Democracy
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/11/opinion/local-media-newspapers-democ
   racy.html

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT
   You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your
   access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will
   load.

   Subscriber-only Newsletter

Jamelle Bouie

   Opinion

Disinformation Is Not the Real Problem With Democracy

   March 11, 2023
   Rows of newspapers on display.
   Credit...Hulton Archive/Getty Images

   Jamelle Bouie

   By Jamelle Bouie

   Opinion Columnist

   Next week I’m giving a talk on journalism and democracy, and I thought
   I would use the newsletter this weekend to think out loud about the
   subject.

   Much of the conversation around journalism and democracy concerns the
   problems of misinformation, disinformation and partisan silos. How do
   we ensure that Americans are getting accurate information? How do we
   help people resist conspiracy theories? How do we encourage readers and
   viewers to engage with perspectives outside their own?

   I think these are important questions. But to the extent that the
   crisis in American democracy is shaped by the modern information
   environment, I don’t think the problem is misinformation,
   disinformation or partisan silos, because we’ve always had
   misinformation, disinformation and partisan silos.

   The information environment of the early American Republic — the first
   years of the Constitution, leading up to the election of 1800 — was
   saturated with conspiracies and misinformation. For all intents and
   purposes, there was no press but the partisan press well into the 19th
   century, to the extent that local political machines produced their own
   newspapers for their supporters and patrons. And conspiracies, again,
   were the common currency of American politics.

   We are having trouble retrieving the article content.

   Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings.

   We are confirming your access to this article, this will take just a
   moment. However, if you are using Reader mode please log in, subscribe,
   or exit Reader mode since we are unable to verify access in that state.

   Confirming article access.

   If you are a subscriber, please log in.

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
