   IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on



   Search

   Featured Shows
       with Nicolle WallaceWeekdays 4PM ET
       ET
       O’DonnellWeeknights 10PM ET
       RuhleWeeknights 11PM ET

   MSNBC TV

   More

   Follow msnbc

   More Brands

   More Shows


   Search

The ReidOut Blog

From The ReidOut with Joy Reid


   Previous Post
   Next Post

Jordan’s war on facts continues with attacks on disinfo experts

   A report from the Jim Jordan-led House Judiciary Committee’s
   “weaponization” panel levels baseless accusations of “censorship” and
   “unconstitutional behavior.”
   June 29, 2023, 9:58 AM UTC

   By Ja'han Jones

   A sketchy new report released Tuesday by the House Judiciary
   Committee’s Select Subcommittee on the Weaponization of the Federal
   Government tries to paint an ominous picture of the Cybersecurity and
   Infrastructure Security Agency.

   Some quick background: In 2017, the Department of Homeland Security
   officially designated election infrastructure as falling within CISA’s
   purview. The agency has since been key in garnering insight and
   offering guidance to private and public entities on how to stop the
   spread of misinformation and disinformation online.

   The issue of online disinformation came to a head during the 2016
   presidential election, and it remains a problem in the lead-up to the
   2024 elections. Of course, many Republicans these days rely on
   propaganda rooted in falsehoods to advance their political goals, so
   they have portrayed federal agencies’ war against disinformation as a
   war on conservatives.

   That’s how we get to Tuesday’s interim staff report, which accuses CISA
   of “unconstitutional behavior” and refers to the agency as “the nerve
   center of the federal government’s domestic surveillance and censorship
   operations on social media.”

   That word — “censorship” — appears dozens of times in the 36-page
   report, which accuses CISA of “censorship by proxy.” In other words,
   the committee is claiming that the agency is engaged in censorship by
   merely sharing information (such as tips received from local election
   officials) with social media companies, because the companies could
   feel pressured to adopt CISA’s suggestions. But the “Twitter Files”
   conspiracy theory (also pushed by the “weaponization” committee)
   ironically disproved this by showing that companies can receive
   information from the government and still independently reach
   conclusions about content moderation.

   However, the committee’s chair, Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, isn’t letting
   the facts drown out some useful propaganda. He and his conservative
   allies have been building up to this report for several months now.
   ProPublica reported in March that Jordan had begun issuing “sweeping
   information requests” to universities and a think tank, in which he
   accused the institutions of participating in the Biden administration’s
   “censorship regime.”

   On June 6, The Washington Post reported on Kate Starbird, the
   co-founder of an anti-disinformation think tank at the University of
   Washington who has faced online harassment over her work. Some of the
   documents Jordan obtained relating to Starbird appear to form the basis
   of the committee report’s dubious “censorship” claims.

   For example, the report notes that Starbird formerly served as chair of
   the now-defunct Protecting Critical Infrastructure from Misinformation
   & Disinformation subcommittee, which the Department of Homeland
   Security established for disinformation experts to provide insight to
   CISA. The report cites communications from Starbird in which she
   expressed concern about public attention.

   And reading the report, one might conclude Starbird thought the
   advisory board had something to hide. But at the time, right-wing
   conspiracy theorists were spreading lies about the disinformation work
   within the DHS — including the creation of a now-defunct Disinformation
   Governance Board. With that as context, Starbird’s words read as though
   she’s simply concerned about the public perception of the advisory
   board’s work — perhaps even concerned that its intentions would be
   misstated by bad actors. But not concerned about the value of the work
   itself.

   On Tuesday, Starbird told CBS News that the report from Jordan’s
   committee “grossly misrepresented” her work and the advisory board’s:

     This report disregards clarifying information within the broader
     record of our subcommittee’s communications and final
     recommendations — as well as my voluntary testimony to this
     Committee — to push a misleading narrative of censorship. Our
     subcommittee played no role in censoring any speech, nor did we
     advocate for the social media platforms to take any action to limit
     the spread of speech.

   The facts are on Starbird’s side. There’s still no evidence of a
   government conspiracy to suppress right-wing views. Unfortunately, the
   GOP’s search for victimhood is not a fact-driven enterprise.
   Ja'han Jones

   Ja'han Jones is The ReidOut Blog writer. He's a futurist and multimedia
   producer focused on culture and politics. His previous projects include
   "Black Hair Defined" and the "Black Obituary Project."
   Previous Post
   AJ Owens’ family is ‘devastated’ over manslaughter charge
   Next Post
   Trump botches Black history again with ignorant slavery post
   Latest Post
   Anti-Defamation League’s leader has curious praise for Elon Musk
