
   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-N8MP7P

   analytics

Accessibility links


   please wait

Print Options:



   Link has been copied to clipboard

       U.S. News All About America Silicon Valley & Technology Immigration
       Africa The Americas East Asia Europe Middle East South & Central
       Asia

Follow Us

   Languages
   site logo site logo
   site logo site logo
   Previous Next

   Press Freedom

Media Among Victims in Israel-Hamas Conflict

   October 10, 2023 6:23 PM

   Mourners attend the funeral of fellow journalists Said al-Taweel and
   Mohammed Sobboh who were killed in an Israeli airstrike on Gaza City on
   Oct. 10, 2023. Mourners attend the funeral of fellow journalists Said
   al-Taweel and Mohammed Sobboh who were killed in an Israeli airstrike
   on Gaza City on Oct. 10, 2023.

   Share


   Media Among Victims in Israel-Hamas Conflict

   share


   As Israel fires back against the Hamas attack on its civilians,
   journalists and news websites have been caught in the crossfire.

   International media watchdogs have reported that several journalists
   have been killed in Gaza since Saturday, when Hamas launched its
   assault on Israel. Other reporters are injured or listed as missing.

   The militant group Hamas, which has ruled the Gaza Strip since 2007,
   invaded southern Israel on Saturday as part of an ambush that included
   the killings and kidnappings of civilians. Israel's military said the
   death toll has surpassed 1,000.

   Israel responded to the killings and kidnappings, declaring war and
   placing Gaza and its population of 2.3 million people under siege.
   Authorities in the Palestinian territories said at least 560 people in
   Gaza have been killed.

   Journalists killed while working

   Among the media casualties is freelance photojournalist Mohammad
   Al-Salhi. News organizations say he was shot dead while covering
   military operations at the border east of the Palestinian refugee camp
   Bureij.

   The Committee to Protect Journalists also reported that journalists
   Ibrahim Mohammad Lafi of the Palestinian news agency Ain Media and
   Mohammad Jarghoun were killed while reporting in Gaza.

   "We call on all sides to remember that journalists are civilians and
   should not be targeted. Accurate reporting is critical during times of
   crisis and the media has a vital role to play in bringing news from
   Gaza and Israel to the world," CPJ's Middle East program coordinator
   Sherif Mansour said in a statement.

   Meanwhile, the International Federation of Journalists has reported
   that journalists Said al-Taweel, Mohammed Sobboh and Hisham Nawajhah
   were killed by an Israeli airstrike that hit a residential building in
   Gaza City.

   "Media workers in areas of armed conflict must be treated and protected
   as civilians and allowed to perform their work without interference,"
   IFJ General Secretary Anthony Bellanger said in a statement. "There is
   intense and deeply concerned interest in this conflict all round the
   world, but people will only be able to understand what is really going
   on if journalists are allowed to do their work."

   Media organizations targeted

   Buildings housing media organizations based in the Palestinian
   territories have also been damaged in airstrikes, and in Israel, the
   English-language Jerusalem Post has been hit with cyberattacks.

   "We've been targeted by a succession of devastating cyberattacks since
   the warfare started yesterday morning," the newspaper's editor-in-chief
   Avi Mayer told the Daily Beast. "We've been trying to deal with them,
   but they've taken us down several times."

   Meanwhile, the social media platform X, formerly known as Twitter, has
   been criticized for a surge in disinformation spread on it, according
   to the news website Wired.

   Wired identified video game footage passed off as Hamas attacks, a
   3-year-old video from the Syrian civil war made to look like it was
   taken this weekend, and images of fireworks in Algeria being shared as
   Israeli strikes on Hamas.

   Experts have said they believe the disinformation is a result of
   changes that X owner Elon Musk has made to the platform, including
   firing trust and safety staffers and an algorithm that promotes users
   who pay $8 per month for a premium subscription.

   Musk had directed followers to two sites that analysts say are known
   for sharing disinformation. The X owner later deleted those posts and
   tweeted to users that they should "try to stay as close to the truth as
   possible."

Related

       Israel Claims Control of Border with Gaza, Promises New Offensive

Israel Claims Control of Border with Gaza, Promises New Offensive
       CAIR: Violence in Israel Comes After Years of Oppressive Policies

CAIR: Violence in Israel Comes After Years of Oppressive Policies
       Unprecedented Levels UN Report: Russian Repression of Dissidents,
       Civil Society Reaches Unprecedented Levels

UN Report: Russian Repression of Dissidents, Civil Society Reaches
Unprecedented Levels
       World Food Program Urges Humanitarian Corridors for Gaza Strip

World Food Program Urges Humanitarian Corridors for Gaza Strip

Latest Press Freedom Stories

       after a police raid on his home in the eastern city of Nanjing.
       Freelance journalist Sun Lin died in a hospital Friday, just hours
       after a police raid on his home in the eastern city of Nanjing.

Journalist Dies in Hospital in China Hours After Police Raid
       Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Taipei, Aug. 12, 2022. Media
       analysts are criticizing a Thai broadcaster's decision to delete an
       interview with Wu after China's embassy in Bangkok complained.
       (William Gallo/VOA) FILE — Taiwan Foreign Minister Joseph Wu speaks
       in the Taiwanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Taipei, Aug. 12,
       2022. Media analysts are criticizing a Thai broadcaster's decision
       to delete an interview with Wu after China's embassy in Bangkok
       complained. (William Gallo/VOA)

Thai Broadcaster Removes Taiwan Interview, Alarming Media Analysts
       Rabih Maamari, who was killed in an Israeli strike, is seen at the
       Lebanese border village of Tair Harfa near the border with Israel,
       Nov. 21, 2023. The damaged camera of Pan-Arab TV network
       Al-Mayadeen cameraman Rabih Maamari, who was killed in an Israeli
       strike, is seen at the Lebanese border village of Tair Harfa near
       the border with Israel, Nov. 21, 2023.

Separate Israeli Airstrikes Kill 2 Pan-Arab TV Journalists, 4 Palestinian
Militants in Lebanon
       during the current war in Gaza are prepared by fellow journalists
       for a symbolic funeral march toward a United Nations office in the
       West Bank city of Ramallah, Nov. 7, 2023. FILE - Mock coffins with
       photos of Palestinian journalists killed during the current war in
       Gaza are prepared by fellow journalists for a symbolic funeral
       march toward a United Nations office in the West Bank city of
       Ramallah, Nov. 7, 2023.

3 More Journalists Killed in Gaza in Israeli Offensive, Relatives Say

Big Impact in Little Haiti

Special Reports

       Mexico. Comic book panels of a photojournalist taking a photo.
       Illustrated poster image for VOA press freedom story on Tijuana,
       Mexico. Comic book panels of a photojournalist taking a photo.

Risk and Reward - Covering Violence in Tijuana, Mexico

The Afghan Journalists Who Stayed
       Mechanism - For Mexican Media, Crime Beat Can Be a Killer

The Mechanism - Covering Crime in Mexico's Most Dangerous States

Recommended


52 Documentary

   Back to top


   XS
   SM
   MD
   LG
