
   BBC Homepage



   More menu
   Search BBC

   Close menu
   BBC News

   Menu

   More


EU gives Meta and TikTok formal Hamas disinformation deadline

       19 October

   Share page
   About sharing
   Young woman holding phone standing near EU flag Image source, Getty
   Images
   By Tom Gerken
   Technology reporter

   TikTok and Meta have been formally told to provide the EU with
   information about the possible spread of disinformation on their
   platforms relating to the Israel-Gaza conflict.

   Previously they were given 24 hours to provide answers to the bloc's
   concerns.

   But that request did not carry legal force, whereas this latest demand
   does.

   Both firms have a week to respond. Under its new tech rules, the EU can
   open a formal investigation if it is unsatisfied with their responses.

   The EU is concerned about the possible spread of terrorist and violent
   content, and hate speech, after Hamas' attack on Israel.

   "We'll publish our first transparency report under the [new law] next
   week, where we'll include more information about our ongoing work to
   keep our European community safe," a TikTok spokesperson said.

   A Meta spokesperson said: "Our teams are working around the clock to
   keep our platforms safe, take action on content that violates our
   policies or local law, and coordinate with third-party fact checkers in
   the region to limit the spread of misinformation. We're happy to
   provide further details of this work, beyond what we have already
   shared, and will respond to the European Commission."

   The EU's latest demand comes a week after it contacted X, formerly
   known as Twitter, over the same concerns.

   X said at the time it had removed hundreds of Hamas-affiliated accounts
   from the platform.

   Social media firms have seen a surge in disinformation about the
   conflict between Israel and Hamas, including doctored images and
   mislabelled videos.

   The chief executives of Meta, TikTok, X and Google each received
   letters from EU commissioner Thierry Breton earlier in October, giving
   them 24 hours to respond.

   But these letters were not formal, legally-binding requests under new
   EU tech laws governing what kind of content is allowed online.

   Now, under the Digital Services Act (DSA), the firms must respond by
   the set deadlines.

   Failure to comply with the DSA can result in fines of as much as 6% of
   a company's global turnover, or even suspension of the platform.

Double deadlines

   In this formal step under the DSA, the Commission has set Meta and
   TikTok two deadlines.

   First, the firms have been told to provide requested information on
   "the crisis response" by 25 October, while they must respond to
   questions about protecting election integrity by 8 November .

   TikTok has additionally been tasked with telling the European
   Commission how it is protecting minors online by the November deadline.

   When the social media firms were previously asked to provide more
   information, Mr Breton said Meta must prove it had taken "timely,
   diligent and objective action".

   He later said TikTok "has a particular obligation to protect children &
   teenagers from violent content and terrorist propaganda".

Related Topics


More on this story

            12 October
       TikTok logo on a phone
            11 October
       Mark Zuckerberg

Top Stories

       Israel and Hamas agree to pause fighting for release of 50 hostages
            48 minutes ago
            9 hours ago

Features

       Yahya Sinwar in 2021
       VideoBBC assesses footage of tunnel and hostages released by Israel
       Caroline Hawley stands in front of a screen with CCTV video
       closer to solving JFK's assassination?
       US President John F Kennedy and First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy
       Arati Kumar-Rao
       Rohit Sharma of India cuts a dejected figures following the ICC
       Men's Cricket World Cup India 2023 Final between India and
       Australia at Narendra Modi Stadium on November 19, 2023 in
       Ahmedabad, India.
       Binance new CEO, Richard Teng.
       Romana Didulo
       Southwest Airlines landing at Los Angeles International Airport
       Sam Altman

Elsewhere on the BBC

       reading on car
       fragmented
       plate

Most Read

    1. 1
       Sam Altman to return as OpenAI boss
    2. 2
       ‘How I got dangerous chat site Omegle closed down’
    3. 3
       China accused of closing and destroying mosques
    4. 4
       King Charles deploys K-pop at state banquet
    5. 5
       Canada QAnon 'queen' leaves village, but hasn't gone far
    6. 6
       Top Gear format needs a rethink, says James May
    7. 7
       Why Trump’s rivals in Iowa still think they can win
    8. 8
       Binance CEO pleads guilty to money laundering charges
    9. 9
       Dutch vote for new leaders in neck-and-neck race
   10. 10
       'I feel like I’m in a nightmare' says mum of teen

BBC News Services




   sites. Read about our approach to external linking.
