   National News FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Series Hall Of Shame FOX 2 Detroit -
   Shows Let It Rip FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Crime Publicsafety Crimestoppers
   FOX 2 Detroit - Tag News The Interview FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Business FOX
   2 Detroit - Tag Lifestyle Things To Do Detroit FOX 2 Detroit - Live FOX
   2 Detroit - Live Newsnow FOX 2 Detroit - Live Fox Soul FOX 2 Detroit -
   Weather FOX 2 Detroit - Closings FOX 2 Detroit - Fox 2 Weather App FOX
   2 Detroit - Weather Alerts FOX 2 Detroit - Traffic FOX 2 Detroit -
   Airport Delays FOX 2 Detroit - Shows Mornings FOX 2 Detroit - Shows The
   Nine FOX 2 Detroit - Shows The Noon FOX 2 Detroit - Mug Contest FOX 2
   Detroit - Tag Series Healthworks FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Series Cooking
   School FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Series Nosh With Josh FOX 2 Detroit - Tag
   Series Get Fit FOX 2 Detroit - Money Saver FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Series
   Doctor Is In FOX 2 Detroit - Shows Weekend Mornings FOX 2 Detroit - Tag
   Politics FOX 2 Detroit - Sports FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Nfl Lions FOX 2
   Detroit - Tag Ncaa Wolverines FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Ncaa Spartans FOX 2
   Detroit - Tag Nba Pistons FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Mlb Tigers FOX 2 Detroit
   - Tag Nhl Red Wings FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Entertainment FOX 2 Detroit -
   Shows Fox Content FOX 2 Detroit - Shows Criticlee Speaking FOX 2
   Detroit - Whats On Fox FOX 2 Detroit - Contests FOX 2 Detroit - About
   Us FOX 2 Detroit - Person All FOX 2 Detroit - Contact Us FOX 2 Detroit
   - Jobs FOX 2 Detroit - Fox 2 Mobile Apps FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Job Shop
   FOX 2 Detroit - Community FOX 2 Detroit - Public File Inquiries FOX 2
   Detroit - Closed Captions FOX 2 Detroit - Problem Solvers Resources FOX
   2 Detroit - Weather Quiz FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Money FOX 2 Detroit - Tag
   Business Personal Finance FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Money Us Economy FOX 2
   Detroit - Tag Business Stock Market FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Business Small
   Business FOX 2 Detroit - Tag Us Mi FOX 2 Detroit - Email

   IFRAME: https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TMF4BDJ

   FOX 2 Detroit FOX 2 Detroit


   Expand / Collapse search
   ☰

   Search site ____________________ Search

News


Live


Stream FOX 2


Weather


Mornings


Politics


Sports


Entertainment


About Us


Contests


Money


Regional News


A.I. and deepfakes could damage democracy as misinformation spreads faster

   By Derek Kevra , Jack Nissen and Dylan Dulberg
   Published October 26, 2023
   Inside A.I.
   FOX 2 Detroit

   Share

A.I. presents dangers to democracy, experts say

   The 2024 election could be the next great test for how fast
   misinformation and disinformation spreads, as well as how voters combat
   its spread.

   (FOX 2) - Earlier this month, a Michigan lawmaker sought to show just
   how effective misinformation is. It cost $5 and took a total of 10
   minutes.

   "Hi representative Tsernoglou, it’s your buddy Joe. I really like your
   bill that requires disclaimers on political ads that use artificial
   intelligence. No more malarkey. As my dad used to say: ‘Joey, you can’t
   believe everything you hear.’ Not a joke."

   President Joe Biden did not contact Rep. Penelope Tsernoglou to talk
   about her new bill. But based on the recording, it certainly sounds
   like he did.

   The experiment showed other lawmakers in Michigan just how effective
   the technology is. And without better regulations and rules around its
   use and spread, misinformation and disinformation driven by A.I. and
   deepfake videos and recordings could have their way come the 2024
   election.

   On Jan. 6, 2021, the world witnessed firsthand what happens when words
   turn into actions. The stakes are even higher next year as technology
   continues its rapid advancement.

   And with artificial intelligence and rapidly advancing deepfake
   technology making it harder to separate fact from fiction, everyone
   from experts to election officials, reporters and professors are wary
   of how voters deal with the barrage of incoming information.

   But educating people determining between something that is real and
   something that isnʼt is no easy task.

   "The main takeaway that I try to leave my students or my friends with
   is that it takes a lot of work," said Prof. Adina Schneeweis, the
   journalism program director at Oakland University. "I canʼt push on it
   in any other way. We need to be more responsible for what we consume,
   what we tell other people, what we share. And itʼs exhausting."

   What might help is defining what misinformation and disinformation
   are.

   The former refers to things that are not true, false information or
   inaccuracies, said Schneeweis. The latter is when that fake information
   is spread intentionally. They often arrive in the form of memes or
   social media posts. And they frequently arrive around conflicts and hot
   topics.

   And once a lie gets going, itʼs hard to rein in.

   "A lie travels halfway around the world before the truth gets it boots
   on, I believe Mark Twain said, and that still holds true," said Joe
   Tavares, an A.I. expert. "But unfortunately, that’s the digital world
   these days."

   Tavares studies A.I. and the world of deepfakes. He said both will make
   misinformation much harder to control ahead of the 2024 election.

   "Once the the news is out there, and it becomes a meme, you guys are
   still researching. And theyʼve already posted it. And itʼs trending on
   Twitter," Tavares said. "It degrades general trust. You canʼt trust
   whatever the source is like, you have a trusted news source. But that
   new source is only as good as the person who puts the piece out or
   researches the piece."

   FOX 2ʼs own Tim Skubick says the spread of inaccurate information could
   have democracy-sized implications for the U.S.

   "Iʼve always advised people that if you make a decision to vote based
   on the political commercials you see on TV, do our democracy a favor
   and donʼt vote because some of that information is not accurate. In
   fact, some of its just boldly untrue. Now we add this AI element which
   as another thing because theyʼre so good at this you canʼt tell," he
   said.

   Concerning Tsernoglouʼs bill, the governor is expected to see the full
   legislation after it advances through the full Michigan House chamber.

   Also following the legislation is Michigan Secretary of State Jocelyn
   Benson. Sheʼs been asking similar questions about what role
   misinformation will play in future elections.

   "It’s the ball game, in my view," she said.

   "What weʼre facing in 2024, for the really the first time in recent
   history, are a number of foreign adversaries, including Russia and
   China and Iran, who have a unique incentive to try to confuse voters or
   interfere with our elections," said Benson.

   Benson advises that voters should always be asking questions about the
   information coming into their world view. "Why is that being injected
   into Facebook or social media? Why is this particular meme being
   created?" are questions to ask she said. "This is not often an innocent
   meme coming into our inbox."

   Besides general education, Bensonʼs office has also launched a voter
   confidence council comprised of business, community, faith, sports, and
   educational leaders to further education about the spread of election
   information.

   A website is also being created by the state to clear up confusion and
   fight misinformation as election day approaches.

   "Democracy is a team sport, it requires all of us working together, and
   ourselves becoming those trusted voices for our neighbors in our
   community," said Benson.

   But until that website rolls out, FOX 2 is making a separate commitment
   to help clear up confusion. Itʼs called "Reality Check" and only
   requires you, the reader, to send something youʼre unsure about to us.

Top videos

   Light rain and cloudy conditions can't dampen Detroit Fireworks fun
   Light rain and cloudy conditions can't dampen Detroit Fireworks fun
   video

Light rain and cloudy conditions can't dampen Detroit Fireworks fun

   Hart Plaza 2023 Detroit Fireworks fans enjoyed the show
   Hart Plaza 2023 Detroit Fireworks fans enjoyed the show
   video

Hart Plaza 2023 Detroit Fireworks fans enjoyed the show

   Four people shot in Ypsilanti, two of them teens
   Four people shot in Ypsilanti, two of them teens
   video

Four people shot in Ypsilanti, two of them teens

   Elderly Detroit woman stuck inside home from large driveway sinkhole
   Elderly Detroit woman stuck inside home from large driveway sinkhole
   video

Elderly Detroit woman stuck inside home from large driveway sinkhole

   Belle Isle fans weather the rain and clouds, and take in the 2023
   Detroit Fireworks
   Belle Isle fans weather the rain and clouds, and take in the 2023
   Detroit Fireworks
   video

Belle Isle fans weather the rain and clouds, and take in the 2023 Detroit
Fireworks

Trending

   Body of missing father Jamie Wilkins from Warren found buried in remote
   part of northern Michigan
   Body of missing father Jamie Wilkins from Warren found buried in remote
   part of northern Michigan

Body of missing father Jamie Wilkins from Warren found buried in remote part
of northern Michigan

   Roger Goodell lauds the Detroit Lions • Workers at one Detroit casino
   remain on strike • Stellantis plant fire
   Roger Goodell lauds the Detroit Lions • Workers at one Detroit casino
   remain on strike • Stellantis plant fire

Roger Goodell lauds the Detroit Lions • Workers at one Detroit casino remain
on strike • Stellantis plant fire

   House for sale in Oak Park targeted by appliance thieves amid growing
   trend
   House for sale in Oak Park targeted by appliance thieves amid growing
   trend

House for sale in Oak Park targeted by appliance thieves amid growing trend

   Man had no car or furniture, but died with a big secret – leaving his
   town millions
   Man had no car or furniture, but died with a big secret – leaving his
   town millions

Man had no car or furniture, but died with a big secret – leaving his town
millions

   Thanksgiving travel in Michigan expected to be busiest ever
   Thanksgiving travel in Michigan expected to be busiest ever

Thanksgiving travel in Michigan expected to be busiest ever


News


Live


Stream FOX 2


Weather


Mornings


Politics


Sports


Entertainment


About Us


Contests


Money


Regional News



   FOX 2 Detroit

   This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or
   redistributed. ©2023 FOX Television Stations
