   and a Game Clip

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Middle East


   Today’s Paper

Israel-Hamas War

       Nov. 22, 2023, 12:24 p.m. ET

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

False Claims Around Israel Attacks Include Recycled Videos and a Game Clip

   Graphic imagery and footage have flooded social media since Hamas
   terrorists attacked Israelis. Bogus claims are also circulating and
   risk obscuring real evidence of atrocities.

   By Angelo Fichera, Roni Rabin and Arijeta Lajka
   Oct. 12, 2023

   In the days since Hamas attacked Israel, killing more than 1,200 people
   in sweeping assaults on kibbutzim, a music festival, towns and other
   places, violent images and graphic videos have flooded social media.

   So too have false and misleading information, old and unrelated videos
   and photos with inaccurate claims, and fabricated assertions about the
   involvement of countries like the United States and Ukraine — adding
   confusion and deception to an already chaotic moment.

   The false information circulating online risks clouding real evidence
   of atrocities that is emerging as Israeli soldiers retake control of
   places that were attacked: videos and photos, corroborated by witness
   accounts, that show that Palestinian gunmen attacked and killed Israeli
   civilians in large numbers. Soldiers and emergency workers are still
   recovering the dead, including children, in many communities.

   Here’s a look at some of the inaccurate material circulating online.

A paragliding accident in South Korea, not Israel

   Image
   isable=upscale]

   While Hamas members on paragliders crossed into Israel from Gaza, users
   on X, the platform formerly known as Twitter, shared an unrelated,
   months-old video of a paragliding accident in South Korea. The video
   captures a paraglider who got caught on a power line, which then
   sparked a fire.

   “A Palestinian terrorist attempting to enter Israel by air, getting
   stuck on an electrical wire, and frying!” one person falsely claimed on
   Wednesday.

   Multiple Korean media outlets reported on the incident in June 2023.
   According to local reports, a man got caught in a high-voltage wire
   while paragliding near the coastline of Seopjikoji, on Jeju Island.

   A geolocation search also confirms that the incident happened at
   Seopjikoji, showing the same sign on the road that was filmed in the
   video.

An old video of a boy in Syria

   Image

   Amid authentic footage of families grieving losses from the conflict, a
   15-second clip circulating on X is being misrepresented as showing a
   “little boy in #Gaza grieving for his sisters.”

   Reverse image searches show the video has been online for almost a
   decade. CNN shared the video in February 2014, as the Syrian government
   was bombing rebel-held parts of Aleppo, Syria, during the country’s
   civil war. CNN’s report noted that it could not independently verify
   the authenticity of the video.

A video game, not a Hamas assault

   Image

   Social media users shared a clip purportedly showing footage of “a new
   air assault on parts of Israel.” But the imagery is in fact taken from
   a video game, Arma 3, as a video shared on YouTube in 2022 shows. A
   representative for the game’s developer, Bohemia Interactive, also
   confirmed the clip online was taken from the game.

   Visuals from that game have been used in the past to misrepresent other
   real-world conflicts, including Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

A video showing violence in 2015

   Image

   Some people on social media have shared a video of a woman being lit on
   fire, surrounded by a crowd of people, suggesting it showed the torture
   of an Israeli woman captured at a festival.

   “This is the diabolic face of Hamas Jihadi terrorists torturing Israeli
   girl at the Nature Festival in Re’im,” read one post of the video on X,
   which has since been removed.

   The video depicts real violence — but violence that took place in
   Central America in 2015, not Israel in 2023. The footage depicts a
   16-year-old being burned to death in a Guatemalan village, CNN reported
   at the time.

A fabricated White House memo

   Image

   An image circulating online was made to resemble a screenshot of a
   purported Oct. 7 White House announcement providing Israel with $8
   billion in aid, with some suggesting it indicated Ukraine would now
   have competition for U.S. help.

   But the White House published no such announcement.

   The supposed announcement resembles actual memorandums issued by the
   White House, notably a similar July announcement concerning assistance
   for Ukraine.

   President Biden gave an address Tuesday about the Hamas attacks and
   vowed to support Israel, a U.S. ally that receives more than $3 billion
   in military assistance every year. Mr. Biden and White House officials
   have said the administration will be asking Congress to authorize
   additional support for Israel.

   On Tuesday, the American ambassador to NATO said that U.S. military
   assistance to Israel would not come at Ukraine’s expense. The United
   States has committed around $45 billion in weapons and military aid to
   Ukraine since Russia’s invasion in February 2022.

An invented BBC report

   Image

   A fabricated video shared on Telegram and X purported to show a BBC
   report that Bellingcat, an investigative group, had found that weapons
   provided by NATO to Ukraine had been sold to Hamas.

   “Bellingcat: Ukrainian military offensive failure and HAMAS attack
   linked,” opening text on the video claimed.

   But the BBC never published that report, and the underlying claim is
   unsubstantiated.

   Bellingcat’s founder, Eliot Higgins, called the video “100% fake.”
   Shayan Sardarizadeh, a BBC journalist, also said it was false.

   And President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine has condemned Hamas and
   repeatedly expressed support for Israel. Hamas and Russia, he said in a
   speech on Monday, are “the same evil, and the only difference is that
   there is a terrorist organization that attacked Israel, and here is a
   terrorist state that attacked Ukraine.”

An untouched Orthodox Church

   Image

   This image — posted on X under the words “Breaking News” — claims to
   show Israeli warplanes bombing St. Porphyrius Orthodox Church, the
   largest church in Gaza.

   Church officials put out a statement saying that the reports were
   false. “We would like to inform you that St. Porphyrios Church in Gaza
   is untouched,” they said on Facebook. “The news circulating about it
   being damaged are false.”

   Israel says it has launched hundreds of strikes targeting Hamas in Gaza
   since Saturday. Gaza residents and health authorities say that mosques,
   hospitals and schools are being hit, and U.N. officials have said that
   airstrikes have damaged water, sanitation and hygiene facilities
   affecting more than 400,000 people.

CNN did not stage a report or attack

   Image

   CNN on Monday published real footage of a correspondent, Clarissa Ward,
   and her colleagues ducking for cover as rockets were fired near the
   Israel-Gaza border.

   A manipulated version of the report has been widely shared online, with
   audio edited over the video to suggest a control room was giving the
   crew instructions, suggesting the report was somehow staged.

   “CNN EXPOSED FOR FAKING AN ATTACK IN ISRAEL,” reads one X post with the
   video.

   “The audio in the video posted and shared on X is fabricated,
   inaccurate and irresponsibly distorts the reality of the moment that
   was covered live on CNN,” a spokesperson for the network said, urging
   viewers to watch the real footage on a trusted platform.

False report of a U.S. Embassy evacuation

   Image

   On Wednesday, false reports circulated online claiming that the U.S.
   Embassy in Lebanon was being evacuated, prompting officials to debunk
   the assertion publicly.

   The embassy responded with a statement Wednesday afternoon, saying:
   “The U.S. Embassy in Beirut has not evacuated and is open and operating
   normally. Reports saying otherwise are false.”

   Embassy officials have advised U.S. citizens in the area to take
   caution and avoid traveling to the Lebanon-Israel border, where the
   Israeli military and the group Hezbollah have exchanged fire over
   recent days. Israel briefly invaded Lebanon in 2006 after Hezbollah
   assailants crossed the border and abducted two Israeli soldiers, and
   the group’s recent border fire has raised fears of a wider regional
   conflict.


   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
