
   Fox News

   Expand / Collapse search
   Login
   Watch TV
   Menu


U.S.


World


Opinion

Politics


Entertainment


Business


Lifestyle


Science


Tech


Health


TV


About


Other


   Fox News

   This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or
   redistributed. ©2023 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes
   displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data
   provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital
   Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
   Refinitiv Lipper.

   POLITICS

Free speech concerns mount over DHS 'disinformation' board as lawmakers,
critics weigh in

Secretary Mayorkas announced the creation of the 'Disinformation Governance
Board' Wednesday

   Kelly Laco By Kelly Laco Fox News
   Published April 30, 2022 6:03am EDT

   close
   Biden disinformation czar goes viral for TikTok song Video

Biden disinformation czar goes viral for TikTok song

   'Outnumbered' panelists discuss the possible impacts of Biden's new
   disinformation governance board on free speech.

   Federal and state lawmakers, constitutional scholars and other experts
   are expressing concerns with the Department of Homeland Security's new
   misinformation board, which they say is the Biden administration's
   attempt to stifle free speech.

   Mayorkas announced during testimony Wednesday before the House
   Appropriations Subcommittee on Homeland Security that DHS had created a
   Disinformation Governance Board to combat online disinformation.

   "The goal is to bring the resources of (DHS) together to address this
   threat," Mayorkas said during the hearing, adding that the department
   is focused on the spread of disinformation in minority communities
   ahead of the 2022 midterm elections.

   REPUBLICANS ACCUSE MAYORKAS OF DISCREDITING 'LEGITIMATE CRITICISM' WITH
   'DISINFORMATION' BOARD, DEMAND INFO

   Nina Jankowicz will be executive director of the misinformation board.
   (Arkadiusz Warguła/iStock)

   Sen. Tom Cotton, R-Ark., was quick to condemn this latest action by the
   Biden administration, promising to introduce legislation to defund the
   new disinformation board.

   "The Federal Government has no business creating a Ministry of Truth.
   The Department of Homeland Security's "Disinformation Board" is
   unconstitutional and unamerican, and I'll be introducing a bill to
   defund it," he tweeted Friday.

   Sen. Marco Rubio, R-Fla., similarly tweeted, "Nothing else we are
   working on will matter if we don’t put an end to the Biden’s Ministry
   of Truth." And Sen. Cynthia Lummis, R-Wyo., stated, "I trust the common
   sense of the American people. A government arbiter of 'truth'
   department is a [red flag] for free thinking people."

   Sen. Rick Scott, R-Fla., plans to ask Mayorkas more about the board in
   a hearing next week before the Senate Homeland Security and
   Governmental Affairs Committee.

   Oversight Committee Ranking Member Rep. James Comer, R-Ky., organized a
   letter Friday to Mayorkas, obtained exclusively by Fox News Digital, to
   "conduct oversight" on the new board and "continued efforts within the
   Biden Administration to suppress free speech and discredit legitimate
   criticism as misinformation." All 19 House Oversight Republicans signed
   the letter.

   "The same party that spent years promoting the Russia collusion hoax,
   suppressed the Hunter Biden laptop story, & equated parents to
   terrorists believes it has credibility to control your speech," House
   Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., tweeted on Friday. "Biden
   must immediately abandon his plan to create an Orwellian Ministry of
   Truth."
   U.S. Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas

   Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas testifies before a House
   Appropriations Subcommittee April 27, 2022, in Washington, D.C. (Kevin
   Dietsch/Getty Images)

   House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence Ranking Member Rep.
   Mike Turner, R-Ohio, and House Homeland Security Committee Ranking
   Member Rep. John Katko, R-N.Y., also sent a letter to Mayokras Friday,
   expressing "serious concerns" about the lack of information about the
   activities of the board under Jankowicz's leadership.

   MAYORKAS TESTIFIES DHS IS CREATING 'DISINFORMATION GOVERNANCE BOARD'

   In addition, Rep. Lauren Boebert, R-Colo., tweeted, "I don’t think
   people are fully understanding the severity of what a Ministry of Truth
   organized by DHS truly means. This is Stalin level. This is Mao level.
   This is the hill to die on."

   The issue has spread to states, with GOP lawmakers and leaders pushing
   back.

   WHITE HOUSE DEFENDS DHS 'DISINFORMATION' BOARD: 'NOT SURE WHO OPPOSES
   THAT EFFORT'

   "Clearly, our entire principles that the country was founded on you
   cannot have a Ministry of Truth in this country," Florida Republican
   Gov. Ron DeSantis said during a press conference Friday. "So let’s get
   real here, let’s make sure we’re doing things to benefit Floridians and
   Americans, but we’re not going to let Biden get away with this one."

   Missouri Attorney General Eric Schmitt wrote a letter to Mayorkas
   Friday that was obtained exclusively by Fox News Digital. In the
   letter, Schmitt states that the focus of the "Orewellian" board to
   focus resources on the threat of "mis/disinformation" should "shock the
   very core of the American belief system, a threat to free speech that
   will rightly alarm freedom-loving people across America, including
   those in my home state of Missouri."

   Brookings Institute Senior Fellow Shadi Hamid said the disinformation
   board is "not exactly a reassuring thought."

   "How is this even up for debate? The government should not be involved
   in deciding what is true and false," Hamid continued.

   Not all the critics are Republicans or conservatives.

   "That the Biden Admin casually announced today that the Dept of
   Homeland Security — a domestic security agency — has created a
   ‘disinformation’ board is indescribably dystopian and chilling,"
   Independent journalist Glenn Greenwald tweeted Thursday. "That
   Democrats think this is good and normal tells you all you need to know
   about them."

   CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP

   The White House defended the DHS board Thursday, saying its objective
   is to prevent disinformation in a "range" of communities.

   "It sounds like the objective of the board is to prevent disinformation
   and misinformation from traveling around the country in a range of
   communities," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said in response to
   Republican criticism of the board during a daily press briefing. "I'm
   not sure who opposes that effort."

   Kelly Laco is a politics editor for Fox News Digital.
   Fox News First

   Get the latest updates from the 2024 campaign trail, exclusive
   interviews and more Fox News politics content.
   Arrives Tuesdays
   Subscribe

   Subscribed
   Subscribe

   You've successfully subscribed to this newsletter!

More from Politics

   Lawmakers demand answers from AP, Reuters amid accusations their
   journalists knew about Hamas attack
   1 hour ago

Lawmakers demand answers from AP, Reuters amid accusations their journalists
knew about Hamas attack

   Virginia Democrats reveal 2024 agenda after Youngkin, GOP fall short in
   midterm election
   2 hours ago

Virginia Democrats reveal 2024 agenda after Youngkin, GOP fall short in
midterm election

   Biden admin reacts to temporary cease-fire deal between Israel and
   Hamas, release of hostages
   7 hours ago

Biden admin reacts to temporary cease-fire deal between Israel and Hamas,
release of hostages

   Christie turns up the heat on Haley and DeSantis as he tries to be the
   Trump alternative in GOP 2024 race
   8 hours ago

Christie turns up the heat on Haley and DeSantis as he tries to be the Trump
alternative in GOP 2024 race

U.S.


World


Opinion

Politics


Entertainment


Business


Lifestyle


Science


Tech


Health


TV


About


Other



   Fox News

   This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or
   redistributed. ©2023 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. Quotes
   displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data
   provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital
   Solutions. Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by
   Refinitiv Lipper.
