   Says

   Skip to contentSkip to site index
   Technology


   Today’s Paper

   Technology|China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow Disinformation, U.S.
   Says
   https://www.nytimes.com/2023/09/28/technology/china-disinformation-us-s
   tate-department.html

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

   Supported by
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

China Uses ‘Deceptive’ Methods to Sow Disinformation, U.S. Says

   The accusations reflect worry in Washington that China’s information
   operations pose a growing security challenge to the United States.

   The exterior wall of a beige office building with a blue sign outside
   reading “Department of State.”
   The State Department reports that China is using various methods,
   including buying stakes in media organizations and using social media,
   to spread propaganda.Credit...Joshua Roberts/Reuters
   Steven Lee Myers

   By Steven Lee Myers
   Sept. 28, 2023

   The State Department accused China on Thursday of using “deceptive and
   coercive methods” to shape the global information environment, by
   acquiring stakes in foreign newspapers and television networks, using
   major social media platforms to promote its views and exerting pressure
   on international organizations and media outlets to silence critics of
   Beijing.

   The accusations, detailed in a report by the department’s Global
   Engagement Center, reflect worry in Washington that China’s information
   operations pose a growing security challenge to the United States and
   to democratic principles around the world by promoting “digital
   authoritarianism.”

   China not only pushes its own propaganda, the report said, but exports
   digital surveillance tools to police information and people online.
   Although many of the tactics detailed are not new, the report warned
   that they could “lead nations to make decisions that subordinate their
   economic and security interests to Beijing.”

   “Every country has the right and every right to tell its story to the
   world, but a nation’s narrative should be facts, and it should rise or
   fall on its own merits,” James P. Rubin, the coordinator of the Global
   Engagement Center, said at a briefing. Referring to the People’s
   Republic of China, he went on: “By contrast, the P.R.C. advances
   coercive techniques and increasingly outright lies.”

   The report echoes a raft of recent studies detailing the growing — and
   shifting — scope of China’s information campaigns. It came a day after
   officials disclosed in a Senate briefing that Chinese hackers who
   gained access to the email accounts of Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo
   and other officials this year stole 60,000 emails from the State
   Department alone.

   According to the State Department’s report released on Thursday,
   China’s efforts have evolved from a primary focus on promoting or
   defending the country’s political views on issues like Taiwan and Hong
   Kong to one that aims to sow disinformation to discredit the United
   States at home and abroad.

   That has included accusations about the origins of the Covid pandemic,
   the new security partnership between the United States and Australia,
   and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

   Meta, the owner of Facebook and Instagram, disclosed last month that it
   had dismantled a Chinese campaign using more than 8,000 accounts, pages
   or groups on the two platforms, the largest inauthentic network it had
   found so far. Microsoft and other researchers also linked China to the
   spread of false claims about the causes of the deadly wildfires in
   Hawaii.

   That campaign included images generated by artificial intelligence, a
   tool that the researchers, like the State Department, warn could
   greatly enhance China’s efforts.

   Image
   The Chinese television company StarTimes provides digital television
   services in Africa, reaching most of the continent’s
   viewers.Credit...Imaginechina, via Associated Press

   China’s control over information internally is virtually absolute, but
   increasingly it is expanding its influence abroad, with its state
   channels broadcasting in 12 languages.

   The report said that China has spent billions of dollars to build an
   expansive state news operation under the Central Propaganda Department
   and the United Front Work Department, which the report said oversees
   investments in foreign media aimed at Chinese diaspora communities.

   The report cited investments in media organizations in the Czech
   Republic, Australia and Thailand, where Tencent sidestepped a law
   against foreign ownership to acquire Sanook, the country’s most popular
   news site.

   China has also become a leading provider in digital television services
   in Africa through StarTimes, a Chinese company that now reaches most of
   the continent’s viewers.

   While the department’s report was based largely on public information,
   it included references to knowledge seemingly based on classified
   information.

   That included “U.S. government information” about an agreement with a
   newspaper “in an East African country” to publish paid articles from
   China without disclosing the connection and the fact that until at
   least late 2020, ByteDance, the Chinese owner of TikTok, maintained “a
   regularly updated internal list” of people who were blocked or
   restricted on the platform.

   The report also detailed what it described as a fictitious author, Yi
   Fan, whose writings in English have appeared in publications around the
   world since 2015 under bylines describing him as an independent
   analyst.

   China has also become adept at using social media platforms that the
   authorities banned inside the country’s Great Firewall. China now
   operates 333 diplomatic or official media accounts on Twitter, now
   known as X, with nearly 65 million followers, according to the report.

   Those official accounts, it added, were bolstered by networks of bots
   and inauthentic accounts. From June 2020 to January 2021, a single
   network of those accounts impersonating British citizens accounted for
   44 percent of the retweets and 20 percent of the replies to posts by
   Liu Xiaoming, the Chinese ambassador at the time and one of the
   outspoken “wolf warriors” of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

   Image
   Between mid-2020 and early 2021, a single network of bot accounts on
   Twitter was found to be behind a large portion of replies to posts by
   Liu Xiaoming, a former ambassador to Britain from China.Credit...Tolga
   Akmen/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images

   “Although more than half of Liu’s retweets during this period came from
   accounts that were ultimately suspended for violating Twitter’s terms
   of service at the time,” the report said, “new accounts continued to
   pop up to prolong this inauthentic amplification.” Twitter has since
   dropped the labels that identified foreign government accounts.

   China uses similar accounts to stifle criticism. The report noted that
   more than 1,000 fake accounts sought to drown out a report last year by
   Safeguard Defenders, a human rights organization, that detailed the
   undisclosed presence of Chinese police officers in 53 countries. The
   campaign used accounts with the same name as the organization in what
   appeared to be an effort to trigger Twitter’s policy to de-emphasize
   inauthentic campaigns.

   The State Department’s Global Engagement Center was established in 2011
   with a focus on countering terrorism and violent extremism. In 2017
   Congress extended its mandate to focus on propaganda and
   disinformation.

   The impact of China’s effort can be difficult to measure, and the
   report suggests that the Chinese campaigns often encounter resistance
   in other countries. The country’s Communist Party appears committed,
   however, to reshaping the international environment suited to its
   political goals.

   “We have every reason to believe that will continue,” said Nathan
   Beauchamp-Mustafaga, a researcher at the RAND Corporation and a
   co-author of a recent report on China’s reliance on artificial
   intelligence to bolster its information operations. “They’re more
   likely to double down than they are to stop.”

   Steven Lee Myers covers misinformation for The Times. He has worked in
   Washington, Moscow, Baghdad and Beijing, where he contributed to the
   articles that won the Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2021. He is
   also the author of “The New Tsar: The Rise and Reign of Vladimir
   Putin.” More about Steven Lee Myers
   A version of this article appears in print on  , Section A, Page 8 of
   the New York edition with the headline: China Accused of Spreading
   Disinformation. Order Reprints | Today’s Paper | Subscribe

   Advertisement
   SKIP ADVERTISEMENT

Site Index

Site Information Navigation




   IFRAME:
   https://www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-P528B3&gtm_auth=tfAzqo1
   rYDLgYhmTnSjPqw&gtm_preview=env-130&gtm_cookies_win=x
