


   Search ____________________
   (search) Search
   Skip to search results

   New York Post
   Read the Latest on Page Six
   November 22, 2023
   Search ____________________

Exclusive video

   Murdaugh-linked teen died from 'single blow to forehead' and wasn't
   dumped at the scene: investigator

   News

Dozens of FBI sources gave ‘criminal information’ on Bidens that DOJ tried to
discredit as ‘foreign disinformation’: Grassley

   By
   Social Links for Victor Nava



   Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.
   Back to Reading
   Published Oct. 25, 2023, 6:38 p.m. ET

More On: joe biden

       payments
       poll numbers
       migrant flood

   More than 40 confidential sources provided “criminal information”
   related to the Biden family to the FBI — which the Justice Department
   tried to discredit as “foreign disinformation,” according to Republican
   Sen. Chuck Grassley.

   The confidential human sources, managed by several different FBI field
   offices, supplied the bureau with details of potential crimes by Hunter
   Biden, James Biden and Joe Biden dating back to his time as vice
   president, according to a letter, obtained by The Post, that was sent
   by the Iowa Republican to FBI Director Christopher Wray and Attorney
   General Merrick Garland on Tuesday.

   “This letter is based on years of investigation, including the
   provision of information, records, and allegations from multiple
   Justice Department whistleblowers that indicate there is – and has been
   –  an effort among certain Justice Department and FBI officials to
   improperly delay and stop full and complete investigative activity into
   the Biden family,” Grassley wrote.

   “An essential question that must be answered is this: did the FBI
   investigate the information or shut it down? Indeed, if those sources
   were improperly shut down, it wouldn’t be out of the ordinary for the
   FBI,” he added.

   “Based on the information provided to my office over a period of years
   by multiple credible whistleblowers, there appears to be an effort
   within the Justice Department and FBI to shut down investigative
   activity relating to the Biden family,” Grassley continued. “Such
   decisions point to significant political bias infecting the
   decision-making of not only the Attorney General and FBI Director, but
   also line agents and prosecutors.”
   Joe and Hunter Biden 4
   The confidential human sources were managed by several different FBI
   field offices, according to Grassley.AP

   The senator notes whistleblower allegations claimed that the bureau
   received information about first son Hunter Biden’s “criminal financial
   and related activity” in 2020, but “ultimately shut it down based on
   false assertions that it was subject to foreign disinformation.”

   The disinformation assessment was created by FBI Supervisory
   Intelligence Analyst Brian Auten, according to Grassley, who explains
   that the report was used by ”an FBI HQ team to improperly discredit
   negative Hunter Biden information as disinformation and caused
   investigative activity to cease.”

   “The precise basis for how the FBI HQ team selected the specific
   information for inclusion in Auten’s assessment is unknown, but the
   focus of the FBI HQ team’s attention involved derogatory information
   about Hunter Biden and Joe Biden,” Grassley wrote.
   James Biden 4
   The informants provided criminal information to the FBI related to Joe
   Biden, his brother James Biden (pictured) and his son Hunter Biden,
   according to Grassley.AP

   Grassley also citeed whistleblower claims that FBI Assistant Special
   Agent in Charge Tim Thibault – the bureau’s “point man” on Hunter Biden
   business partner Tony Bobulinski – ordered that another 2020 probe into
   the first son’s alleged “criminal financial and related activity” be
   closed after pressure from “an FBI HQ and FBI Baltimore element.”

   The senator further revealed that in December 2019, the FBI Washington
   Field Office closed a “205B” kleptocracy case into Mykola Zlochevsky,
   the owner of Ukrainian natural gas company Burisma Holdings – at the
   same time Hunter Biden’s seat on Burisma’s board of directors was under
   heavy scrutiny as a result of former President Donald Trump’s
   impeachment over his infamous phone call with Ukrainian President
   Volodymyr Zelensky.

   Trump had asked Zelensky to investigate Joe Biden’s role in the firing
   of former Ukrainian Prosecutor General Viktor Shokin.

   The probe into Zlochevsky had been ongoing since January 2016,
   according to Grassley, and was being investigated by a Foreign Corrupt
   Practices Act squad based out of the FBI’s Washington Field Office.

   An FBI informant alleged in June 2020 that Zlochevsky described a $10
   million bribery allegation against Joe Biden and Hunter Biden, which
   was memorialized in an FBI FD-1023 form.

   The informant recalled Zlochevsky claiming during a 2016 meeting that
   “it cost 5 [million] to pay one Biden, and 5 [million] to another
   Biden,” according to the redacted FD-1023 form.
   Chuck Grassley 4
   Grassley alleges that the FBI and DOJ sought to shut down
   investigations into the Biden family. Michael Brochstein/SOPA
   Images/Shutterstock

   After the kleptocracy case into Zlochevsky was closed, Grassley says, a
   “guardian” assessment was opened by the FBI’s Pittsburgh Field Office
   to analyze information about the Biden family provided by Rudy
   Giuliani, during which DOJ and FBI officials located an FD-1023 from
   March 2017 related to the closed Zlochevsky probe.

   The 2017 document contained a reference to Hunter Biden being on the
   board of Burisma, which “the handling agent deemed at the time
   non-relevant information to the ongoing criminal financial case,”
   according to Grassley.

   “When that FD-1023 was discovered, Justice Department and FBI officials
   asked the handler for the Confidential Human Source to re-interview
   that CHS,” Grassley writes, noting that the re-interview led to the
   creation of the June 2020 FD-1023 containing the bribery allegations
   against the Bidens.

   During the guardian assessment, run out of the FBI Pittsburgh Field
   Office, investigators were “limited in their investigative abilities,”
   according to Grassley, because it was only an “assessment.”

   The Iowan claims that Auten and the FBI’s Foreign Influence Task Force
   worked to “falsely discredit” the bribery allegations in August 2020 as
   “foreign disinformation” and  “attempted to shut down” further
   investigative steps.

   “It should be emphasized that the basis for trying to shut down the
   Biden family 1023 has been described to my office as highly suspect and
   is contradicted by other documents my office has been told exist within
   the Foreign Influence Task Force, FBI Seattle Field Office, FBI
   Baltimore Field Office, and FBI HQ holdings,” Grassley notes.

   The Pittsburgh assessment was closed in September 2020 with its
   findings sent to the Justice Department by Scott Brady, then the US
   Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania.
   Merrick Garland and Christopher Wray 4
   Grassley demands that Garland and Wray respond to his letter by Nov.
   17.REUTERS

   Brady’s report recommended that “additional investigative activity be
   done” on Biden bribery allegations.

   “Notably, my office has been informed that, with respect to the CHS in
   the Biden family 1023, the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Western
   District of Pennsylvania coordinated with the U.S. Attorney’s Office
   for the Eastern District of New York in 2020 and found no hits to known
   sources of Russian disinformation,” Grassley wrote, adding that the
   information was transmitted to Delaware US Attorney David Weiss – the
   prosecutor overseeing the DOJ’s five-year-long criminal probe into
   Hunter Biden, which is ongoing.

   Grassley demanded a response to his letter from the FBI and DOJ by Nov.
   17.

Share this article:


   Filed under

   Read Next Biden says US is willing to fight China on behalf of the P...

Black Friday Deals

    These are the 122+ best Black Friday 2023 deals to shop right now
       shoes
    Slip into winter with these unbeatable Black Friday deals on UGG shoes
       deals we found
    Amazon is kicking off Black Friday now— Shop the 65 best early deals
       we found
       Black Friday Warehouse Sale
    For the first time ever, Crate & Barrel is hosting an up-to-30% off
       Black Friday Warehouse Sale
       20 while you still can
    Target has unveiled its early Black Friday deals now — grab these 20
       while you still can

Trending Now on NYPost.com

       This story has been shared 82,810 times. 82,810

Gen Z has canceled leggings — here's what they say to wear instead
       apartment over a week after she was last seen
       This story has been shared 59,368 times. 59,368

'Housewives' star's interior designer found dead in her luxury NYC apartment
over a week after she was last seen
       student in 1994
       This story has been shared 51,220 times. 51,220

Former NFL star, ex-ESPN analyst accused of raping fellow Columbia student in
1994

Now on Page Six

       Stars’ bond and ‘bittersweet’ elimination
    Harry Jowsey, Rylee Arnold reflect on ‘special’ ‘Dancing With the
       Stars’ bond and ‘bittersweet’ elimination
       with royal family
       ‘I don’t know’ how it works

   See All

Video


Now on Decider

       Israel-Hamas War: “We Have Zero Tolerance For Antisemitism”
    Melissa Barrera Fired From ‘Scream VII’ Over Her Stance On
       Israel-Hamas War: “We Have Zero Tolerance For Antisemitism”

   See All

   Joe and Hunter Biden The confidential human sources were managed by
   several different FBI field offices, according to Grassley. AP
   James Biden The informants provided criminal information to the FBI
   related to Joe Biden, his brother James Biden (pictured) and his son
   Hunter Biden, according to Grassley. AP
   Grassley alleges that the FBI and DOJ sought to shut down
   investigations into the Biden family. Michael Brochstein/SOPA
   Images/Shutterstock
   Merrick Garland and Christopher Wray Grassley demands that Garland and
   Wray respond to his letter by Nov. 17. REUTERS

   Image

   Advertisement


More Stories

Page Six

   Controversial celebrity dermatologist Alex Khadavi dead at 50

Controversial celebrity dermatologist Alex Khadavi dead at 50

NYPost

   Gen Z has canceled leggings — here's what they say to wear instead

Gen Z has canceled leggings — here's what they say to wear instead


               o Subscribe
               o Manage Subscription
               o Tips
               o Newsroom
               o Letters to the Editor
               o Licensing & Reprints
               o Careers
               o Vulnerability Disclosure Program
               o Self Service
               o Media Kit
               o Contact

   Terms Privacy Notice Sitemap

   Information Powered by WordPress.com VIP

   IFRAME: //www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-TWX9Z9

Share Link

   click to copy ____________________
